Title: I Tried Something CRAZY... and it actually worked!
URL: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gBN5TBA4ejI
Video ID: gBN5TBA4ejI
Request Time: 2026-06-12 03:02:35 PM

--- TRANSCRIPT ---

Today, I'm putting a spin on another simple woodworking project. One board, two tools, $100 profit, and free plans on my website for anyone who fits in this age group. Sorry, Ethel. If you wanted to stop by, we could build one together. We need to find the center of our board. Your speed square generally has a bunch of notches on it. Set it down on your piece, put it in the little notch, and draw your line. Another method that requires a little less math is to build one of these dowel rods, pencil, just in a random piece of wood. And what you end up doing is taking these dowels, lining them up with the sides, twisting it until it locks into place, and just scribing your line that way. If you want to make one of these little ddads for projects to come, take your material, draw an X in the center from corner to corner. Then just taking your 45 degree apparatus, put it in the corner, make a mark, corner, make a mark, and drill this out for whatever size dowel rod you're using. And this one I left a little large because I can put pencils, markers, etc. And if something's too big to go in the hole, just wrap some painters tape around it. And it's handy to make these in a couple different widths because the closer your board width is to the distance between your pins, the closer your jig can get to the edge of that board before it falls off. Measure up 5 and 1/2 in and mark across your material. Notice how my pencil hit that mark before the square came up next to it. That's for extra accuracy. Also, make a mark at 2 and 1/2 in on our center line. Using a 1/4 in bit, drill out our 2 and 1/2 in marking. This step prevents our hole saws pilot from wandering off. Hey, get back here. Yeah, the tree was a nice touch, but it's not proportional to the bus or the bench. Drill halfway through your material. Flip your board over and finish your cut. This prevents the back from blowing out and it's easier to remove the core from your hole saw. Using this 45° handy contraption, draw two lines leading up to that top 5 and 1/2 in mark and cut along those lines using your jigsaw. I do this step after cutting the giant hole because hole saws always choose violence and the bigger my board, the harder it is for my drill to yank it out of my hands. Then using an eigh inch drill bit, roughly find the peak of our circle and drill a hole. We need one on both sides. Return your board to have a 90° edge and repeat this process for your entire board. When you get to the end, place your material on a piece of insulation foam and use your feet clamps to hold it down. No violence. Before getting rid of that helpful center line, we need to drill a quarter inch hole just up near the top centered just so that it's spaced evenly between the two pieces. I go about a quarter inch down, 1/2 inch down, doesn't really matter so long as the hole is a/4 in diameter. And then all of your smaller tiny cut off pieces, those are going to the burn pit. I know you guys are playing some weird block game. They're going to the burn pit. Oops. Using between an 80 to 100 grit piece of sandpaper, sand off those pencil marks. Kiss all the edges so that they're not splintery. We're going to do this to that center core cutout as well. I'm using a 1 and a/4 in screw. Just a drywall screw. You can use a construction screw if you'd like. And I don't want it to go too deep. I don't want it to poke up into the bottom here. That would defeat the purpose of this entire project. Tight Bond 3. It's waterproof exterior glue. There are others that exist. Gorilla and probably more. Pop your screw in there, put it into the hole, smush down your glue, and screw it into place. And if you wanted to ramp up production, add your glue, and using a 1 and 38igh of an inch 18 gauge nail, fire two nails closer to the edge of our base. This is not sped up. I'm naturally this quick. Then using a 0.08 in piece of twine, cut them to about 7 in long. Then we're going to tie that 0.08 in piece of twine into that top center hole. After creating the knot, I like to pull it into the workpiece so it's not visible in the project. Then you're going to pick up a 100 count of these bamboo skewers. Here's the point. We're going to cut that off. Close your eyes because that thing goes everywhere. I want our bamboo skewer to be about a half inch over our total project's width. About right there. Then I'm going to make this second piece so that they're just the same size consistency. I guess you know where this is going. Goes into these other two holes that we had drilled. Bada bing. It doesn't fall out. They fit quite snugly. Do that for all of them. It just so happens that birds like to eat more than just seeds and worms. There's a whole list of different fruits that they like to enjoy. With this, all you got to do is put a little piece of it inside of that skewer and wait for the birds. I don't know. Maybe I should take it actually outside. This project cannot remain unfinished. And no, you cannot use treated lumber for this build. If you leave them unfinished, what actually happens is the pine begins to mold and mildew. It attracts pests, and that is not safe for the well-being of the birds that you're trying to feed. And to finish them, all you need to do is put a clear coat polyurethane on them, a tongue oil, 50/50 mix of linseed oil and mineral spirits so that it's safe for the birds. You'll also have to replace the fruit daily. You don't want it to attract pests or molds on the fruit. Also, different birds and different species have come and nibbled on it. You're basically running a bird buffet at this point, and you're the manager. So, replenish, make it fresh, make them happy. And lastly, moving on to profitability. My 1x4x8 was $4.99. Glue 2 cents. Nail screws 6 cents. Skewers were 20 cents. It's a 100 pack. 17. I actually only used what? Nine of them. So, 20 cents. Twine 39 cents. The 100 foot roll was $3.99. That's going to be 1,200 in. I'm using 119 in for this project, which is pretty much 10%. So, 39 cents for our twine. Electricity, 2 cents. I have 6,000 lights on, so I can record this. You guys won't have that problem. Timewise, it takes about an hour and 15 to an hour and 30 minutes to create all of these. They're small. They're kind of tedious. you have a lot of little holes and a lot of little things to sand and you also still need to stain them and you know tie the strings. It's it's a bit of a process. We're able to create 17 from that single 1x4 by8 which brings us $119 minus our $568 $113.32 in your pocket. Now I mainly sell at craft boots. I when I make these small little craft projects I'm not really popping them on Facebook. that takes a lot of time and communication for people not to show up. I also do not ship these general smaller items. Shipping is just going to eat away all of my profits. So, yes, mainly I sell at craft events. You guys could find some locally for you. Otherwise, you could pop them online and make the buyer pay the shipping prices, but at that point, that's an outrageous amount of money for what they're getting. I get quite a few comments on people wanting me to add in the pricing of the craft booth and the time it takes to go out there. It only costs $ 20 to $40 per day depending on the event. Some are inside, some I have to set a tent up for and with those 20 to $40 a day. I have 40 plus products that I take. I profit anywhere $700 to $900 per weekend that we go out. I can't really calculate that because I'm not just selling this product at the booth. I have everything that I've built is with me. How fast can I get this to spin? And it's a little confusing because the project doesn't actually have motion. It doesn't matter. Not that fast. So just loosen the bolt.