Title: How to Build a Planter Box with ONLY a Circular Saw. - Make Money Woodworking - Planter Box
URL: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=hKwbkhotvcY
Video ID: hKwbkhotvcY

--- TRANSCRIPT ---

Today is a simple build using only a circular saw. I thought we were joking about this. No? Using cheap lumber, 30 minutes of your time, $120 in your pocket. Free plans available at whoisyourboss.com because an informational video that asks for money at the end is basically a time-share seminar. Come on. Grab your circular saw, a long straight board, some clamps, a square, and your material. Make sure you have an extension cord that's beefy enough to support the tool that you're powering on the other end. This one is a 12-3 wiring. It's the same stuff running in all my walls to all my outlets. It's only 25 ft long because I don't need it to be any longer than that. Also, if you take your power cord, you wrap it around like this, you tie a little bow, plug it in the right way, now it can never come unplugged. On your circular saw, make sure you're setting your blade depth to be only a maximum of an 8th inch underneath your material. You don't need all that blade hanging out. And make sure you do all those adjustments while the saw is unplugged. Get some safety glasses. Let's do this. To get started, I trim a quarter inch from the end of my board to remove this rough stapled mess. To safely make this cut, I measured down 5 and 1/4 of an inch and aligned my square. Not sure if all circular saws are the same. Double-check your base-to-blade measurements. Then make a cut at 8 in, make another cut at 8 in, make a cut at 25 in, and make another cut at 25 in. And you're going to repeat those steps for five boards. That's why I cut mine two at a time. Our next board, trim off the rough stapley end, and cut four pieces at 8 in long. Ripping a board with your circular saw might seem intimidating. The easiest way to get precise measurements is just knowing the distance from the edge of your base to the side of your blade. This side is 1 and 1/2 in, this side is 5 in for my specific model. The problem you might experience, whether you're cutting on top of foam or you're up here on the saw horses, is that after making a few cuts, there's not enough room to clamp this board down and still safely make a rip cut. And that's where you're just going to take a board of the same thickness, you're going to butt it up against your other piece, and now you have a nice flat surface, and you can continue clamping this board down, finishing off the cuts for this board, and then moving on to the next. You've got two clamp options. You have way more than two, but I'm only going to show you two. This guy, pretty standard bar clamp. Only problem is if you put him like this, the motor's going to run into him, and if I put him like this, I got to bend down and tighten it. I only use these if I'm doing things with the router. That's just for extra grip. This is going to hold this perfectly flat and where it needs to be, just like so. Took me seconds to do that. And then you run your saw down the side. And I'm not putting a whole bunch of force against my fence. It's it's a guide, not a life-saving device. So, I don't really need that much clamp power to hold this down. It's also not a bad idea to add a few strategically placed pieces of painter's tape to connect these two boards together so they don't wander off. Who'd that happen to? Not me, I read it online. Only cut one board at a time to prevent your material from moving, and by keeping both hands on your circular saw, you keep them out of the blade's path. Repeat this step so that we have two 1 and 3/4 of an inch pieces. Our final cut is at 1 and 1/8 of an inch, which means our guide is 100% off our board. Only being held down by a few slivers of tape. And congratulations, you successfully ripped a board down using only your circular saw. You just need to repeat all of these steps one more time. No, you can't cut the next board up. You don't have any safety glasses. Let me get you some. Our two really thin slivers, one of them, just get rid of it. We don't even need it. The second one, you're just going to cut it twice at 23 in. Both of those 1 and 1/8 in slivers, we are cutting to 27 and 1/4 in. My second cut, I flipped them around for better sawhorse support. That's why they look like I'm cutting them really small. And two of our 1 and 3/4 of an inch pieces are getting cut to that same 27 and 1/4 measurement. On to assembly, you're going to take five of our 25-in long pieces. Find out which side looks the best cuz this is going to be the top, the part that everybody sees. You're going to take two of our 1 and 1/8 of an inch little leg pieces here, and they are going to go just like so. If they are a little bit too short, leave the shortness at the top. Don't leave it at the bottom cuz they will see the bottom of the box more than they'll see under the lip at the top. Using Titebond III, it's waterproof, exterior. No, I do not sand any of my pickets. I leave them all raw. I'm using an 18-gauge 1-in brad nail. They're not galvanized. You can use galvanized if you want. You can use staples if you want. I forgot to fill up my air compressor, and I know she's running low, so give me >> [laughter] >> just a second. You guys would like to guess how many nails this build is actually going to take? Now's the time. I'm going to give you 5 seconds. Go to the comments. Guess your nails. I'm going to put two nails into each of these. Good job keeping up. Match whatever sides you made flush. This is my bottom. This is going to be the top. Then I take my side, tip them upright, and set them inside of my vise. I don't need to clamp anything down. He's just kind of there to sit upright like so. I'm going to take the 1 and 3/4 of an inch piece, and I am going to glue and nail him right there. Just nice and flush with the front of our box. I'm going to take it, flip it around, repeat for the other side. Then we're going to repeat all these same steps for our next long side. Once I have both the long sides assembled, that's when I'm going to add this small bracing piece. I just do this afterwards because I don't want to accidentally put one up here, then build the next one, and put it down there, and then it's all caddywampus. So, that's not fun. I generally put it right underneath the first top two pickets, just right here. On to the second most frustrating part, and that's adding these really small sides to our planter box. And I do this after I do the long sides because it's easier for me to get my nail gun like this as opposed to like this. I'm just going to squirt some glue all the way down. Oh, look at her go. Oops. Oops. Oops. I'm barely even squeezing this bottle, and I'm getting more glue than the mayonnaise guy at Subway gives me. And then you're just going to line those 8-in pieces up like so, take your nail gun, and you just two nails into each. Now we're going to flip this guy around real gentle cuz I don't really have any strength until the glue dries. And we're going to repeat that for this last side. Little glue, couple nails. To create our bottom, I'm just going to add some glue on top of this ledger, and grabbing those last 4-in pieces, I'm just going to lay them down inside of here. I do one on the outside, and then the next interior so that I end in the center. This final interior sliver should be an inch and 3/4 wide. If that 1 and 3/4-in piece is too snug, you can go down to that 1 and 1/8-in piece, cutting it at 8 in, and then just leaving a little bit of a gap in between each plank. Really just allows for additional water drainage. Then secure those boards down with a few nails. To create our mitered top lip, I just measured the top of my box. I got 10 and 3/8 of an inch. I always just add half an inch to that. Just makes my boards nice and centered. So, 10 and 3/8 plus 4/8 gives me 10 and 7/8 plus my 5 in for the saw, looking at 15 and 7/8. Yeah, buddy. Sorry. Then we're going to bring them over to our planter box. We're going to do a rough fit because we don't want to have to try to cut them after I've already stuck them down into glue cuz that's less fun. Once they fit nice and tight, throw on some glue, nail them down into place. These boxes are no different than any of the other planters available on my channel. 100% free plans. You just watch the video. Free marketing photos. Free flyer that you can hand out. Free sales sheet to keep you guys organized. Here to make you some money. Also available with the 8-in planter, you have plenty of material to turn it into a 10-in. If you wanted it 10 in wide instead of 8 in wide, I prefer the look of the 8-in. I think the 10-in is starting to get a little large, but it's more bang for their buck. So, maybe they want a 10-in planter. I only offer the 8-in. I don't offer a 10-in planter, but you've got plenty of material. So, if you wanted to do 10-in boards instead of 8-in, you can. Adjust your top sizes accordingly. You got this. Additionally, I drill a 1/4-in hole in the center of each picket. That just allows for a little bit of drainage. Yeah, it drains into the very bottom of the box, but it'll find its way out. It's water. It's fine. Think I can hit these two pieces? Watch that. WATCH THAT. OH! WE'RE DONE. Stop recording. Hey everybody, me again. We're actually not finished cuz if I don't go over this, uh you guys are going to all ask me in the comments and I'll have to answer you individually, which I love. I only offer the 8-in box. I do not make the 10-in. The 8-in boxes, they are selling for $100. I used to gauge it that each picket was $10 for me. So, however many pickets my boxes took, I sold them times 10. That's how much money I would make. I have adjusted my pricing. I went over it in the last video. It's also in the description of this video that prices have gone up. They've gone up because I'm I'm swamped. I have There's too many orders. Last year was a real big struggle for me to do all of these, plus filming. And now on top of all of this, now I have business crap I have to do. So, I have adjusted my prices to be a little bit higher. So, it's a little bit bigger of a payout for me if I'm literally coming home and building planter boxes until I go to sleep. So, they are a little bit more expensive. They are again in the description. Check that out. If you want to see how to edit your flyer, that was in the last video that posted. I'll just post it in the description as well. It's the flyer video. Ba-da-bing. I don't sell the 10-in box. I only sell an 8-in box. Generally, they're going to buy two of them. You can offer that they can put, you know, the house numbers on the front. They can put one of those little lights in the the middle of it so it illuminates in the night. It's just a nicer box. It's easier to fill up with flowers versus the wider box where they might have to put more in stagram. And if they are kind of just using it as an additional next to the house, I like the 8-in sold better than the 10-in. Last year I sold both of them. 10-in one. So, I was just showing you the 10-in. I'll I'll sell it, but it has no meaning to me. And yeah, that's what we're cooking. That's that is everything, I think. I think we covered it.