Title: Everyone Throws Sawdust Away...Here's How to SELL IT!
URL: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=6gmjCVaRfjY
Video ID: 6gmjCVaRfjY
Request Time: 2026-06-12 03:02:50 PM

--- TRANSCRIPT ---

No matter what you're building in your shop, you're going to have sawdust afterwards. Let's turn it into some going out to eat money. I saw this project a while back, set a few out at my craft booth, and at the end of the day, I was baffled. What I was going to throw away made me 48 bucks. I consider scrap wood to be at its final stage of life when it brings my hand toes a little too close to those fast, sharp, spinny things. And that final stage happens to be returning it back to the earth. But sawdust doesn't burn that great. Most people end up throwing it on top of some paint cans to hide them in their trash. That's jail time, by the way. My saucepan and hot plate are built into one, so I can knock this project out in the garage. However, if you want to do it in the comforts of your own home when your wife is not there, there is no mess. There is no odor. Just make sure you are buying a dedicated pot cuz you're not going to want to make mac and cheese in this later. Unless the pots in your cabinet are lined with teflon and you're okay with eating and ingesting the C8 that lives inside of that, then you probably don't care about eating a little sawdust. First ingredient you need is some sawdust. Take it out of your dust collection system. I'm sure there's some around your miter saw. When I run my planer, I like to keep all those bigger, thicker chips because it does very well for this project. I've also made it out of that little fine dust that sits around the shop. Either one will work. Second ingredient you'll need is some paraffin wax. Comes in these hard little blocks. It's how they make candles. It's also the stuff they coat apples in until you buy them from the store. Paraffin wax, the miracle product. Otherwise, you can use crayons. They sell them in bulk without the wrapper. And I'll go over some pros and cons later on in the video. Then we're going to crank up the heat to 150 or so. Not very high at all. Really, it's on low. What is that? Chicken. No, it is kind of cool. It's like the Rick and Morty garage. Do you guys read this yet? Okay. All right. We got to get moving because this thing's starting to smoke. To cut your paraffin wax, don't saw at it. It's going to take you all day. Just put your knife on there. Give it some light pressure. If this is your first time making this product, cut about an inch off of the block, cut them into little 1-in pieces, and throw them into your pot. Pretty soon it'll begin to melt and make this very beautiful little thick liquid. I have a potato masher. I like to just set that on top. Kind of swirl it around. I don't like to push down a whole bunch because once that wax gives out and it pushes down, it sprays you with wax. Now, it's not that hot, doesn't hurt, but it gets stuck in your clothes. If you wanted to use old candles or you go to the thrift store, you pick up a whole bunch of used candles for cheap. However, those will have an odor and you also have to deal with the glass and the wicks. Just a lot easier to buy a block of paraffin wax. I also have this little silicone scraper. It's great for getting into the sides. It has a little flat spot. We'll go over that in just a moment. I can use it to scrape all that wax off of my masher. Once you have a perfectly clear liquid, has just a little bit of sawdust in it because you've done this before. And take a little handful of sawdust. Not much, like this much. You're going to sprinkle it on the top and then you're going to mix that in. What we want to avoid is the need to add additional wax when we can just add a little bit more sawdust. It's the same thing if you're trying to mix up a small batch of concrete. You're going to get it until it kind of looks like that crumble that goes on top of a pie. M pie. Next, you're going to need some sort of a silicone mold being a candy mold, candle mold, resin mold. Doesn't really matter what you type in to find them. I'd originally found these. I thought they were going to be smaller. I've never used it. It just looks like a stump. Problem being, this is gigantic and going to eat our profits 100% away. Then I found these. These are nice candy molds. They have the nice breaking points in them easy. I can fill them up. I got them on clearance. But with these, I'd have to have a method to either wrap them or put them inside of a baggie because I don't want this to get over 150 degrees in somebody's vehicle and then melt everywhere. And since Amazon's so good at suggesting products for me to buy, they showed me these come in a bulk pack. They close up. They're actually four candle wax. Has the little cutouts. They're perfect. All you need to do is take a little bit of wax here. I kind of just scoop it up and over the side. Then I take this sharpened corner. I just press it into each of the corners. You'll see a little bit of liquid squeeze out. That is what we're looking for. You'll also be able to see all of those grid lines. I don't need to fill this all the way up to where I have it at is more than enough for what we're doing. And then to finish it off, I just sprinkle a whole bunch of sawdust on the top of it. Then after an hour or so, once everything's cooled down, just take that extra sawdust, dump it back into your container. Maybe just clean up this lip up here. I like to just run my finger around it. Bada bing. Adding that light dusting of sawdust to the top is not a necessary step. However, since these are little fire starters, it does help to ignite the puck and it dresses them up a little bit. makes them look like those really fancy like scented wax warmers. And you'll see the husband will be like looking at a woodworking thing and the wife's disinterested. So, she'll wander over here and she'll just pop this thing open. She'll Which rolls me right into the next tidbit of information. If you're making them out of crayons, don't mix all the colors together. Just like playing with Play-Doh, you get this brown poopy purplish color and it doesn't honestly look that bad. Uh when you pull them out, no one's going to know. They don't really smell like crayons anymore. And if you're using a thin, fine, powdery kind of sawdust like I did in the video, you'll get nicely filled in squares. If you're using what was just that chunkier, thicker stuff, you're going to get squares that kind of look like this. if you don't compact it down so that it fills that void. Speaking of fire starters, let's see these babies in action. First test, I also included a crayon because they can burn up to 30 minutes apparently, but the 20 mph winds had other plans for that. The paraffin wax produces a much larger flame. And when placed in a low oxygen situation, they perform a little better, but generally these are underneath kindling or other material to help make fire big. And here, once again, the paraffin wax does a better job. By now, you've come to the conclusion that at the end of the day, you don't want a bunch of wax in the bottom of your fire pit. But that's not how this works. Because of science, it actually dries as a powder once it's burned up. Same with the crayon. Crayon paraffin wax. It's just a powder. And now it's time to start selling these so it can be that much closer to being a millionaire. This is the Grimary. Watch the movie Wicked Sawdust. 100% free once you've built a couple projects. Containers for $12.99. I'm getting 50 of them, which takes each one of these down to being only 25. Wax comes in a oneb box, $9.99. I have 17 finished little fire starters, so 59 cents per one of these for my wax. Electricity, the cheapest I can go is one penny. So 17 cents total. Time. Wax melting is going to be the largest amount of time for this. I'm going to say you could easily get this done between three minutes and four minutes each one. All you're doing is you're mixing it up and you're scooping it into one of these. Then you wait for it to dry. I'm selling these for $6 each. Two for $10. Why? Nobody's going to buy them for that price. Just save you guys the comment. It's a craft show. Everything at craft shows is a little more expensive. If you're selling them online now, you're competing with anything else available online. It's a click of a button. They don't care where they're going. Craft show, they're they're right there. They're at the booth. They see other stuff. Blah blah blah. Which means if you sell all 17 of them, your pure profit is $7055 up to $8755 depending on if they're bundled or not. Chicken, anything to add? He's got nothing. So, what else could you do with your sawdust to make a quick buck? Really depends on how much sawdust you're trucking out of your garage each week. It's a five gallallon bucket load. Your options are limited. If it's truckloads and truckloads, you've got all the options. You can sell it as an animal bedding. Horses, goats, chickens. Some guinea pigs and rabbits are okay with it. Some animals have respiratory issues with it, so please do your research. You can sell all of those as a makeshift bedding that, you know, they can scoop away and use instead of hay. In gardening, you can add it to soil or compost. blueberries and strawberries. Anything that really likes acidic soil, you can mix in a little bit of wood shavings. However, some woods do draw the nitrogen out of the soil, so you might have to add other additives. So, again, do your research. You can spread it on top of your garden beds as a way to keep the moisture in and also suppress the weeds from growing through. Some personal uses, you can use it to fill cracks or repair projects. If you're matching that wood type with sawdust, you can mix in a little wood glue, repair those items. You can keep a small amount in your shop to act as an absorbent. So if you spill something on the ground, you can quickly throw a little bit of sawdust on top of it. Same works for kitty litter if you're cleaning up oils, paints, anything that's a little bit thick and more viscous, I think is the word. I've also heard, but never tried, that you can sprinkle it on your icy driveways and it gives you traction, works as kind of like a salt. I think salt will do a better job. And if you're forced to participate in some sort of baked good drive, you could just mix a little bit of sawdust in with some Rice Krispie treats and over the years keep adding a little bit more until they notice. That could also be seen as poisoning and jail time. Usually about midweek the wife asks if I'm done recording for the week and I usually tell her no cuz I'm not. This is pretty much why. You can do some sick burnouts though. Oh man. I guess this is the end of the show. See you guys.