Title: Simple $25 Planter Box is my 2026 BEST SELLER
URL: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=ChW3zC-2iNg
Video ID: ChW3zC-2iNg

--- TRANSCRIPT ---

A couple years worth of testimonials have confirmed that my easy to build, easier to sell planter boxes are a huge money maker. Let's go make some more. But first, I'm rapid fire answering a few common questions you guys ask a lot. To avoid shrinkage, warping, and cupping, I put a thin cut scrap in between every 5 to 10 pickets. The very top board will probably still try to do a situp. My pickets are/ an inch thick, 5 1/2 in wide, and 6t in length. Yeah, that's right. I use an 18 gauge 1-in brad nail, not galvanized. If you're making them out of pressuret treated, go galvanized. If you can't find pickets at the big box store, I don't live locally. I don't know where to tell you to go. The mills are going to be charging much more than $3.28. It's going to be a higher quality of cedar. I know we both hate doing this, but you might have to go and ask an associate. >> You said you can't find the cedar pickets. I can show you where they're at. >> No, we're all set. >> You're looking for cedar? >> Nope. Thank you. Is it build the project o'clock yet? Cuz Aaron's getting hungry. Grab six pickets and two 2x4s. Free plans available at who'sthevoss.com. Because no how-to video should require you to pay money for additional information. And if they do, then you just watch a 7 plus minute advertisement about their product. Set your miter saw to 30° and make your initial cut. Flip your board and make a cut at 9 in. You'll do this six times. And if after cutting your material, you end up with something like this, it's really wet and your board weighs a whole bunch. These pickets weigh like 400 lb. That generally means you did not have kiln dried lumber. Kilm dried lumber is just where they take lumber, they put it in this gigantic oven, they heat it up for a little while to bring the moisture content down to 6 to 8%. And then with your board like so, you're just going to measure in an inch and a quarter. Make a little mark. Flip them over. Measure in another inch and a quarter. We do this little flip because we're taking them over to the miter saw and cutting that off at the 30° mark. It's just easier to flip the board over rather than having your line on the wrong side. You should end up with something that looks like this. Moving on to picket number two, we need to cut out these little triangles for the bottom. Now, these pickets being from a different supplier than I had previously got them the year before, they're they're a little wider. They they don't fit through the door as easy. And that means that these pieces are a different size than what I had used last year to get around all of this to make sure that they fit the pickets that you are currently using. Simply measure the distance between these two cuts, and that's how big you need to cut these triangles on the miter saw. With that picket, we make our initial 30° cut. That takes care of that pesky staple. Then measure in two to three/arters of an inch to two and 78 of an inch. Please measure your board to get your exact number and cut a cute little triangle. Reset the initial angle and do it all again six times. After you've cut out those six small triangles, return your saw back to 0° and just cut those funky angles off so that it's nice and flat again. Measure down 35 in and make one more cut. With our final four pickets, trim off those pesky staples. Measure down 35 in. Make a cut. Measure down 35 in. Make a cut. Take three of your 35 in pieces over to the table saw and set your fence to 2 1/2 in. This is not the center of our board. You'll have to run each board through twice. I like to knock this step of assembly out just so it gives our glue a little bit of time to set up while we're building our 2x4 bases. You're going to take this piece here, our trapezoid, I do believe. Take that smaller little triangle. He goes on the bottom like that. These boards are for demonstrative purposes only. They're taking place of these boards. So, just pretend that they're 35 in long. I'm going to take that 5 and 1/2 in wide piece. I'm going to take a little Titebond 3. It's their waterproof exterior glue. It's one of the better ones they make. Same price as Titebond 2 and original. Why aren't we just buying Titebond 3, people? I don't know. We're going to put some glue on this bottom edge. And this corner is going to meet up with this corner. Go just like that. Same with this guy. Little bit of glue. He's going to meet up. And these angles, you don't have to cut them so that you know they match up perfectly in a nice miter. It doesn't matter. It's the bottom. It also allows for a little bit of drainage for the plants. They probably enjoy that. And with these pieces where they are, you're going to put two or three nails into this smaller section. Now, I like to put three nails into this just to kind of keep everything nice tight together. We'll get to that in just a moment. These two pieces, again, putting glue on that bottom edge. He gets butted up next to that 5 1/2. Glue butted up. And I like to put three nails into each of these on both ends. And using this method of the smaller triangle in the bottom and the two smaller strips at the top allows my boards to be staggered to where I can just glue and nail them together and skip the entire process of adding a bunch of strategic pocket holes which not only eats up time but also profits because that hardware is not cheap. And I'm going to just keep talking cuz I don't want to add any background music. If I add in background music, what ends up happening is that creator is like, "Hey, you got to share the money from this video with me because you used a 15-second clip of my song. That's ridiculous." So, this is how you get it done. Again, just glueing a nail in the bottoms, gluing a nail in the tops. If you guys want to guess to how many nails this entire build's going to take, you might want to hurry up cuz we are closing in fast. Pro tip. If you start with nailing this thinner board in the front, you can actually make sure that your miters and these edges line up perfectly. If you start with the bottom, they might not. And if you're looking to add a touch of elegance, you can make these just little support pieces that help hold everything together. Go right cha. Reset your saw to 0°. Cut a piece of scrap so that it's, you know, 90° to the side. And then move it on down about 12 in. I should honestly went with probably 16 if you have it. 12's a little short. Moving to the table saw, set your fence to 1 and 1/4 of an inch and rip that piece down into three nice little slivers. Back at the miter saw, set your angle to 45°. Put that board on its edge. Make your initial cut. Flip it over. Measure down 5 in. Make a cut. Do that one more time. Again, things got a little close, so I usually just use this pencil when things are getting a little sketch. Our boxes are 35 in long. Center is 17 and 12. Throw some glue on the back and three nails in the bottom, two nails in the top, about an inch down. Just kind of guess that it's 90°. Perfect. Moving on to our 2x4s. Trim off the ends because they're usually rough or a different color. Then cut it in half. 48 in is perfectly fine. Do this for both boards. Set your table saw fence so that it removes the rounded edge. I like to put a piece of painters tape on the left side of my blade so it doesn't spit all the sawdust at me the entire time. Then adjust your fence to 3 in and run your boards with that nice clean cut edge against the fence. This will remove the other rounded section from the other side. And if the 2x4s that you're working with require more than just a quarter inch to get all that rough, nasty, chipped away section of the edge off, maybe you blew out a little piece while you were running the table saw, you can cut them down past 3 in. You can take it down probably 2 and 1/2. I wouldn't go more than 2 and 1/2 just aesthetically, but you can take a little bit more off if you need to. Back at the miter saw, cut one end of your board to that 30° angle. Reset your saw back to zero degrees and measured down 43 and 3/4 of an inch and make another cut. And that's how we're going to cut two of them. In the last two boards, we cut the end at 30°, reset our saw to zero, measure down 25 in from the pointy, and make our last two cuts. I could recut and film this so you guys didn't know I made a mistake. This is going to be at a 30° angle. It's not flat. 30° 30° perpendicular to each other, not parallel. 25 in across the top. Both of them. Should we get them? Chicken. Hang on. Whoa. Once assembled, you're going to have something that looks like this. And to figure out where each leg goes, you're just going to take a longer piece, get it nice and flush against another board. You're going to take one of these boards, set a board underneath here just for stability. And you're going to line up this leg so that it's flush, and you're going to just drag it in until it's flush up here. I'm going to throw four options at you for assembly. The first two are just to create a half flap joint. Remove half of this material, half of this material. I'll show you how easy peasy it is on the miter saw. It adds strength, it adds aesthetics. That's what I like to do is a half flap joint. And then with a half flap joint, you can assemble or let the customer assemble. For the customer who's going to roll up in their little Honda Civic and four kids in the back and this with planter boxes, they never fit. They never fit. So, here's the option. They can screw the leg in on their own. Give them some Phillips head screws. Don't give them no T-25 cabinet screw or something. They're not going to have that head at home. Pilot them out, have it ready for them. Little baggie of glue, little baggie of screws in different baggies. They can do it at home. I have a few of them. I do not assemble the legs so they can do it. And again, if they're picking it up at, you know, a craft show or they come out for scenic drive, it just fits a lot better in the vehicle if they don't have giant legs sticking out the backs. Your other option is to add some glue and throw screws in it just like this. If your miter saw does not have that sliding motion, you cannot make a half-lap joint on your miter saw cuz that chop motion it's it's got to slide. So, if you only have a chopsaw, it does not slide. This is your option. You can also create your half flap using the router, using a chisel, using your table saw with a weird sled cuz it's 30°. But let me show you how to do that half flap joint. After marking where our 2x4s overlap, measure up 3/4 of an inch on one end of your 2x4 to find the center. Hey Alexa, set the miter saw to cut a 3/4 in halflap. It's done. I think that's only an option on fest tool stuff. on your polyudi miter saw on the right side there's going to be this little twisty knob and that's going to be your depth setting. So as you twist that down it limits how far the blade can come down into the base. But you're going to twist this little guy until your blade height is the exact same as that mark that you had made. I clamped a scrap piece of 2x4 to my fence. This way the full depth of our blade can go into the piece we're working on. I also added this piece of wood to the top and that's just to hold this board down so I don't have to try to hold it and push down and figure out where the line's going and control it with my other hand while this fast spinny blades right next to my face. Just makes things a little easier. And once you make your initial cut into your 2x4, it gives you a perfect curve to tell you where to start cutting on this board. And then you'll remove that material from your board to create your half flap joint. I don't know about you, but for some reason, this always makes me want some fresh cut deli meat. Get a little ham, little honey ham. Oh, some Cajun turkey. Delicious. Now, with your blade, if it is not a flat top grind, which mine is not, just did a good job, I guess. You're going to have all these little lines and little spots sticking up, you could clean those up with a chisel, hit them with some sandpaper. It doesn't have to be perfect. It's going to be on the inside of our joint. This edge, you shouldn't have the little teeth marks cuz that's the direction we cut with our blade. With this one where we kind of crossmembered it, you might have some little teeth marks. So, kind of get those cleaned up so that they're kind of flat. Don't sand down because then you're going to create a gap. Before I glue mine together, I'm just going to take a tape measure, put it on that 30° angled end, measure up 12 in, 24 in, and 36 in. And that is going to be the placement of our boxes. Just like so. And they're going to go up. When they're there, they're going to be flat on the top because we did our angles right. Bada bing. It's called glue surface area. Hit the sides as well. That counts as surface area. More surface area you cover with glue, the stronger your joint. And that's why dovetails work because when you cut those funky shapes, it creates more space for glue. I added three screws. One near this top in the center and then these two I tried to keep in line with this longer board. So, two screws right there. Not a bad idea to pilot this guy out cuz he might split your board. For one of them, I put the screws on this side. The other one I put the screws on this side. So, that way when they're turned, both the screws, they're in the center. They're not on the outsides where you're going to see them more often. This is the easiest way to attach your planters to the legs. found this out about halfway through the last season where I'm trying to hold six things and it was a nightmare and then I had some saw horses down. I was like, "Hey, perfect." If you don't own four saw horses, put a board across the top of one, clamp it down, put your legs on top of that. That would work as well. I cut a lot of sheets of plywood. I use four for that. You can see I cut through them a lot. Take that scrap piece of 3-in 2x4 that we had. And then you're going to find which side of your planter box is going to be the face, the front. And you're going to find those two tick marks in the center. Get him aligned with the edge of that 2x4. That's going to be our spacer. And then I'm just going to run some glue right down here. Okay. Then we are going to flip him down into place. The bottom of our board should line up with the bottom of our pencil mark. And then the edge of the entire planter box is going to line up with our 2x4. I'm sure there's going to be an entire debate on whether you're using screws or nails to get these into place. I like to use those same inch and a quarter shallow screws. They just bite into the material. They pull that wood down. Honestly, glue is doing most of the work. So, a couple two little screws. I put one in the center of that 2 and 1/2 inch board and then one about that same distance down into that 5 and 1/2 inch board. Repeat those steps for the other side. Repeat that for our other two boxes. And wham, bam. Thank you, ma'am. You've got a completed planter box. And I'll just keep talking so that way there's no weird awkward silence during this shot. Did you guys know that onions have grain direction much like wood? Yes. How you cut an onion significantly impacts cooking by altering flavor, texture, and how fast it cooks. Cutting against the grain breaks more cells, leading to a faster softening, more pungent, and easier to melt onion, perfect for sauces. Cutting with the grain leaves it milder, sweeter, and crunchier, cuz onions are full of water just like wood. Production time 35 to 45 minutes depending on what music you're listening to. And that's not too bad considering you're getting $74 profit off each one of these you build. This planter box has gone through several revisions in the last two years, costing only $25.71 to build. I'm selling them all day for $100. Originally, it featured a 10-in wide little cubby. I took it down to a 9-in cubby. Took it down to 9 in because that means I only needed six pickets to build this entire project. The 10in wide required 10. And that would have cost me $12 extra dollars per planter box. That's nothing that the customer is actually missing. Last year, I had two customers request little dividers so that they could keep their plants separate from each other. I just built two extra of the side pieces, glued the center piece, and nailed into where that little triangle pieces. Gave them a couple of those. Something that could be an add-on sale for you. I also have a dedicated video on stains, sealers, UV protection for your cedar boxes. I have a video on when to sell different hobbies, different craft items, when to start building them, when to start selling them, when to start discounting them. And there's also one about where to sell. I sold the same product on different platforms, saw which one gave me the most bang for your buck. If you're wanting to take this hobby and start actually filing as a business on your taxes, those are some great videos to check out. Otherwise, pressuret treated is fine to use. If you have a concerned customer, offer to throw in a liner. Nate, before you throw the liner in, ask them if they can tell you what country any of these three pieces of produce come from to the store any other time of the year. They probably can't answer it. So, why are they all of a sudden interested in chemical traces from the wood that's going to go to their tomato? Whoa. Do you have a slow setting? It's not even up