Title: I LITERALLY CAN'T KEEP UP!! - In-Depth WAVY Flag FULL BUILD
URL: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=15fXwkBN7Zo
Video ID: 15fXwkBN7Zo
Request Time: 2026-06-12 03:03:14 PM

--- TRANSCRIPT ---

Today, I'll be showing you another simple woodworking project that has quickly become my best seller. Only tools you need for this build are jigsaw and a grinder. After watching all the videos that exist for this build, I noticed that they'd left out some very important key details. So, today we're building this simple one-hour knockout project, and we're also building this. Includes every upgrade you can make to that guy to make that much more cheddar. Two tools, three boards, couple Benjamins in your pocket. Why aren't you wearing the right shirt? Head to your local 4x2 joint pick yourself up three and a half 8-footers. We need to cut these down to be 37 in each. Seven of them. 37 in? Why such a strange number? Because different flags have different ratios. The American flag happens to be 10 by 19. If 13 pieces of 1 and 1/2 in material equals 19 and 1/2, our length would be 37 in according to Google. I'm not a math genius. A lot of other videos clamp their material down and just start carving till their little hearts content, creating that wavy effect. By cutting a rough wavy shape into our boards before carving, we save ourselves a heck of a lot of time, sandpaper, and cleanup. But figuring out how much to remove from each board while factoring in the wave height and angles and how many times you go up and down can be a piece of cake if you're watching Who's the Boss. Cut yourself a 48-in piece of plywood, 1-by material, just anything that's at least 2 in tall. I do not need it to be the same thickness as our 2-by material, that's a little overkill. Anything 3/4 in, 1/2 in, 1/4 in thick, that's what you need. Once you have that board acquired, head on over to who'stheboss.com. I supply free build tutorials, free plans, free everything that I offer here on the channel. Because in the beginning, YouTube was a teaching platform. Now, a lot of people use it as a stepping stone to get into your pockets. And in those plans you'll find this funky shape. You're going to cut out the border and on that red line, then you're going to put it at the end of your board, just like so. What I like to do is just put a little tick mark up here. That'll be important in a second. You're going to trace down that line. Doesn't have to be exact. It's going to mirror each piece as we go. Continue that until you get all the way down your board. I'm not going to keep going because I already have a template. I don't need a second template. You get it. Once you have this line doodled all the way down your board, you'll take a tape measure, put it at the end, and you'll make a mark every half an inch. You're going to do that 13 times. 7 * 2 carry the 1. I put too many lines. Then take your square and doodle some lines nice and straight. Don't use a Sharpie. I'm using a Sharpie so you can see it. Afterwards, I number them 1 through 13. You can go any direction. And then take your board, cut it on that wavy line, and you've now created your own personalized jig. There are a few small tweaks you can make to your jig to really flex your creative freedom. Uh cuz of the 250th anniversary, when you say freedom, it's freaking out the chickens. Like when you say like and subscribe, it pops up stuff. There are some cool things you can do with this jig that I've seen no other creator show you. So I'd like to show you now. If you start with your first board on one, and then you end with your 13th board on 13, you're going to get a wave pattern that goes to the right. If you reversed it, started with 13 and worked your way down to one, your wave pattern would be reversed. It'd go the other direction. If you started on one, went down to seven, and then crawled back down, I don't know what would happen. It would look pretty cool. And wave direction is not the only thing you can change up. These are all half-inch spacings, meaning that I start here and my board progresses half an inch every time I move up. So from the bottom board to our top board, I've got 6 and 1/2 inches of difference. If I had set this to be a quarter of an inch, I would start here and my wave would end right here. Now, I do have five waves because of my template, so I'm always going to have this number of waves unless you change up your template. However, you can change the angle from this, it could be like this for your wave. If you had gone to being 1 inch or 3/4 of an inch of these tabs, your wave would lay down more. If you went 2 inches, it'd lay down even more. No matter if you make the jig to match my plans or you're going off in your own direction, all of the steps to follow will be exactly the same. I take my board, tip it up on its end so both of these are nice and flat on the workbench. I go down to that very first marking, then I trace my board all the way down. I also mark the bottom of my board with the corresponding template number, so I don't have a puzzle to put together later if I drop them down the road. Then return to your jigsaw and cut out that wavy line you're going to learn to love. Then we return the leftover section of our board back to our template, put it on spacing number two, trace that squiggly onto your board. Remember to mark a two on the bottom of our piece because you're going to forget that about 50% of the time. You're going to repeat these steps for the other six pieces of wood. I don't care to have that weird little fast forward noise in my videos. I find it very annoying. And I'm not being all secretive so I can come running over to my band saw cuz I broke the blade days ago. Don't care how big and tough a man you are, when this thing decides to pop, you just say if I had to poop, I would have. And after cutting out all of your pieces, it's beginning to make that wavy effect. If you guys have any tear out or burrs on the side of these boards, go ahead and just gently sand those off real quick before you reassemble to this step. And this is just board 1 2 3 4 5 6 that we had followed with the template going all the way up to 13. 13 total pieces is how many we need for the flag. You will have an extra board that doesn't have an end cut off because 7 * 2 would be 14. Don't worry about that. Our next step is to remove what is left of this rough wavy section. So, it looks like it is in fact a piece of fabric waving in the wind. To do so, I'm just using a grinder and I'll go over the attachment heads and some different tips to help you guys get this accomplished as I am carving it out. Because all of our pieces are just gently holding hands, if I try to attack it with the grinder, they would go everywhere. This is paint, not blood, and I added white paint so you know that I didn't have a near-death experience. Put it on one half. I'm going to clamp here, work over here, and then I'm going to move it down and clamp here and work over here. If you guys are using this style of clamp as you go to tighten it on, you'll know that this bar in fact will flex making these unparallel, and what that likes to do is make all of our boards explode up into the air. Good thing that you numbered them. If you are using this kind of clamp, this board is going to have to be doubled or a 2 by 6 because it doesn't touch and I want it to touch this clamp. Otherwise, if you are using a parallel bar clamp, whoa, $500. These are 30 at Harbor Freight. You're going to lock your clamp into place, which is touching your board, which is touching your flag. This way, it stays nice and flat. You don't have to worry about it cupping up, and there's going to be vibration and other, you know, factors playing on this as you're grinding it down. Speaking of grinding it down, using an 80-grit sanding disc, I begin by knocking off the larger raised sections. Switching sides since I'm right-handed, and a link in the description to the sanding disc I used. You can also purchase a carving disc, which is made out of metal and acts like a fast-spinning cheese grater. Long straight passes allow the contour of my sanding disc to smooth out the waves. As the sandpaper wears down, especially by the edge, it will begin to burn your wood. Simply lower the angle that you're grinding at if it does. Touch up spots as you go. It does not have to be perfect. If you choose to burn the surface of the wood as I do here in a moment, most of your blemishes are going to be covered up. Wear a mask, use proper ventilation, or simply do this step outside. If you're anything like me, health reasons would come second, mainly because doing this in your garage covers every surface with very fine sawdust particles. And those particles can float in the air for well over an hour. Switching over to an orbital sander with 60-grit sandpaper. It was not an originally included tool, but it gives you a slightly better result here at the end versus using the grinder. And I'm cleaning up the highest point of our wave to be more rounded. You can also follow the contour of the wave and buzz off boards 1 and 13 to give you this more in-depth wavy look. And you'll end up with something that looks like this. Super cool. Lastly, a simple wood burn to the surface really brings out the grain and hides those oopsy blemishes. Under the video, if you click on more and then you click more again, depending on your device, you'll find all the links that I keep referring to. Two more are going to be this pack of 500 1-in white stars. It's an Amazon buy. Don't remember how much it is. That much. And you'll see these templates. They come in a three-pack. This is the smallest size. They do come even larger, but we're not making a flag the size of the workbench. We do have a problem with this template, however. If I line it up at the top, and it looks all perfect, and you're like, "Heck yeah." When you come down here to the bottom, you notice there's only five stripes and they're supposed to be six stripes underneath the Union. So, what happens to our template? It's now sticking over the top and presenting exhibit A of how to get around that kerfuffle. You just forget the top six stars. Whoa, whoa, well, okay. Listen though. Is anyone really counting these? Okay, all all right, we'll put all the stars on there. But seriously though, if this next step freaks you guys out a little bit, you can just ditch six of the stars. Maybe you hate these six states. I'm not sure. Uh but it's not a good idea though. You should put in the work. Get all 50 of them on there. You may have noticed that I've added our clamp and two additional pieces of waste material since we had grinded off that section to make it look extra wavy. She really wants to pop up and explode into the air like a firework and who doesn't? To make sure all 50 states are properly recognized, I've got a system. I count up six pieces and I put my template there cuz I've got six stripes before our Union. You may have noticed that this is nice and straight and on every wavy flag that I've ever seen, it does not follow the contour of the wave. It is a straight line for this flag. You may have noticed I've added a tick mark to these first two columns of stars and it's about an eighth inch to 3/16 of an inch above this nice flat section. I don't want it above a point because when I'm moving this template down, it's harder to see than this nice flat spot where I have a nice flat line. You can also just put some painter's tape down and make those eighth inch, 3/16 inch tick marks on that piece of tape and then just move your template down on these. It'll keep everything nice and flat and square. After tracing your star, you're going to finish off the entire row and since our template is semi-transparent, I can see that star line through this template and there is our line. There is our tick mark. Otherwise, you'll line it up with the next tick mark on that piece of tape and then you will do the next row. And you'll continue that and over time it's going to bring these very top stars so that they are officially on the flag. I forgot to mention before you start tracing your stars, get your template in position. Make sure it's lined up nice on that board, lined up nice with the side. Get everything held down in place, tape it down and you're going to draw a line along this edge of our union and that's going to also help you as you move down your tick marks to make sure that your template is staying nice and straight. That's also the edge of where we're going to stop painting the red and white and the blue. It's where they're going to touch. In this short little film, I've also packed it with not one, not two, but three different star design options to make your flag stand out among the competition. I haven't painted anything as of yet. I just thought these looked cooler painted cuz otherwise it looks like no. No. It looks like this. I'm going to start with the easiest method and move on to the hardest. So, the simplest way that we can get this accomplished is you take your template, you lay it out where it's supposed to go, you get a flag. Let me get one that's kind of easy for me to do. You get your little sticky stars. After painting the blue, making sure it's dry, you're going to stick your star down, give it adequate pressure to make sure that glue adheres onto the wood. Ba-da-bing. Project one complete. And before you guys go turning your noses up, that's how I got this one done. These are just stickers. Wouldn't be able to tell from that far away. Stickers. Clear coat over the top when it's done. They don't peel up. Option two follows those same steps except you're going to do the star before you do the paint. Lay down your template, peel up a star, get them into place. Not very well centered, but it's all right. Make sure that glue is nicely adhered. I'm going to just slather on some of that paint on top of them. Now, if you're going this route, you'd be able to paint the red and white or leaving the white as wood and then paint your union after everything has been glued up. Yeah, that looks dry enough. Once the union paint has all dried, just going to take some sort of little pick or fingernails if you got them. Now, instead of having a white star, you have a natural wood colored star. And if you leave these white strips of wood natural, which I'll show you in a minute, it it's a banger. And lastly, our third option doesn't require these stickers at all. Take your template, layout where your stars are after you have painted the blue union blue canton onto your flag. And you're just going to grab a small handheld Dremel. I'm already down here. I don't have safety glasses. Watch out. And here I'm just using a simple Dremel tool. It's a versatile handheld high-speed rotary power tool used for detailed and intricate tasks such as cutting, sanding, grinding, polishing, and engraving on materials like wood, metal, glass, and plastic. So, instead of putting a sticker on afterwards, putting a sticker on before and removing it afterwards, you just traced it out, used your Dremel, removed the little bit of paint that was on the top. Painting your flag is easy breezy. We have 13 pieces, and there are 13 stripes. Every other will be red, and you'll see that even I messed this up somehow. For this flag, I did not paint every other stripe white, but rather I left them all natural. After slathering on the paint, you'll see I'm removing the extra paint on the top with a paper towel. This helps make the grain pop. An easier way is to dilute your paint with 20 or so percent of water so that it's thinner. Or, yes, you could go buy tinted wood stains. This is a simple acrylic paint from Walmart using flag red and cobalt hue. If you do mess up, you have to resand the entire piece and burn the surface again. To turn these pieces into a completed flag, flip the 13 strips on end and add a little glue to each. I generally hug the bottom because that's where I'd like the glue run off to go if in fact I have run off glue. Still using those flat scrap pieces from earlier, loosely add your clamps and maybe that board from earlier to keep our flag nice and flat. I use Titebond 3, it's a waterproof exterior glue. Titebond 2 is water resistant and someone hangs this on the side of their house or their barn, we want it to last as long as possible. And there you have it, entry-level flag, slightly above entry-level flag. Hanging these on the wall, just purchase some picture frame hardware, screw that onto the back either horizontally or vertical, or you can do a quick Google search and find a keyhole router bit. It's actually just a thing you put in, it creates a little thing to catch your screw. That's generally what I do to the back of mine cuz it's cheap. If you're enjoying my content, the biggest impact you can make is to let this video play through just one more time. Keep a little bit of sound on though. That way the algorithm knows that it's a banger, it's going to spread it off to more people. I have a video on when to sell your projects, tells you what holidays to stock up on with product examples. I also have a where to sell your projects. I sold the same project to the same person for the same amount across a bunch of different platforms to see which one cost me the most money and which one got me the most cheddar. Start-up costs for this build, excluding the tools, is about 35 bucks. You have to buy the stencils, the stars, and the paint. And then, once you own the stencil, you're just buying stars and paint. I am selling this all day, every day. I have two more I have to build after this video for $400. I sell at craft shows and local events and Facebook Marketplace. I do not ship these products, they are too large. If it doesn't fit in a UPS ready-to-go ship box, I don't ship it. UPS and FedEx are 40-minute drives for me. UPS is all I got. I built this as an example to show you guys what you can do with them. Painting the the stripes, sticking on the stars, it still looks like a great product. I'd sell this one for $150, $170. It's just this one, the craftsmanship level is a little bit higher, and it brings people over to my booth. I also have a build video and free plans on how to make this draped flag. Started selling it 2 years ago, it's sold very well since then. There's a number of holidays that these flags sell very well. They also kind of sell just throughout the year because people are patriotic. They want to hang one up. And to make this, it's super easy. Cut out your shape, carve it, add your paint lines, and then paint it. And you're done.