Title: How to Build BASIC Cabinets - Using ONLY OSB!
URL: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=nqdTAo6HIok
Video ID: nqdTAo6HIok

--- TRANSCRIPT ---

Today is the day that I build my dream workbench featuring so freaking much storage, pull out totes, a recessed and lighted miter station, these drawers that require zero hardware, and these fashionable OSB doors that everybody's going to dislike. Why do you guys hate OSB cabinets so much? Quick disclaimer, this video is rather short for building an entire workbench. Free plans are available as always on my website. who'sthevoss.com which include both specific sizing for this build and an overview of cabinet making in general because that's really what you're going to be doing. This is a faster paced get or done style than what you're used to seeing here on the channel. Here we go. If you guys recall 2 years ago when we had started the channel, I would stand here, miter saw right here, table saw right here. It was nice and as we built things together, it was starting to get a little cluttered. So, my table saw just lived over here. And there's a few features on this workbench that I'm not bringing over to the new one, like the fact that there's hidden pencils around in all kinds of spots. And then on the back of the rolly part, there's a gigantic paint booth that opens up. That was kind of cool. Hasn't been used in a while. I'd like to have a miter saw station to where I could cut the end of an 8ft board if I wanted to. In just 3 hours time, one lucky viewer is going to come on over to the shop and take this whole freaking workbench with them. I'm using 3/4in OSB. It gives my pocket screws a little more bite than if I had chosen half inch. OSB is kind of the theme here in the shop. Some don't like it, but it's not their shop. Using my circular saw, I am cutting the bigger sections of my cabinets being the sidewalls. And wouldn't it have been nice if the width was actually 30 in instead of 28? Well, when you don't cut your line straight, you got to trim a whole bunch off. So, now it's 28 in wide. After batching out a few rough sides, I return them to the saw horses to cut in that towek kick 3-in x 3 in. I also am cutting out the back because I do have a line of block around the bottom of my garage. That's a 4 in x 10 in cutout for me. So, I measured up, found my center, and cut two little weird cubbies for access. You could choose to cut your shelving like every other corner cabinet, but I chose violence. Then, I cut my bottom supports and added pocket holes. We'll talk about the 2x4s at the top in a moment. These mitered 2x4s are to create one of those popular tote sliding dios. I'm using a Sterilite 40Q tote. I'll be able to use three with plenty of space left over instead of only using two deeper traditional totes. I added two 12-in supports with shelves and added my next two sides to the corner. The miter saw support is lower since we need to accommodate for the height of the miter saw base to get everything level with the countertop. And that concludes day one from nothing to something. Got all the sides put in. All the spacing is done. That was really the biggest headache of how big to build stuff cuz I don't have plans for this. And my walls, they're not 90° to each other and they're not perfectly upright either. The backboard I did not go with OSB just because if I mounted my countertop and Craig it down, if it really wanted to move, it would just rip out the OSB. So, this is a little bit more beefy. To kicks in and the rear piece of board, spacer, I don't know what you want to call it. Those are all OSB. To install the shelving, I cut my pieces to be the width of my toekick and the depth of my cabinet. I added pocket holes 1 and 12 in from the corners and every 6 to 8 in down the sides. I cut four scrap pieces to help me space my shelving and to keep everything as level as the shelf below. It seems to help out a great deal. I have been too close to the ground too many times today. For the miter saw shelf, I went a little fancy. Using a/4in piece of Luon scrap and a few strategically placed clamps, I traced a line across the front, cut out the curve, and glued a piece the same size to its bottom with a few screws to hold it in place. Using a flush cut router bit, I duplicated the curve to the bottom piece of OSB. This leaves me with a nice thick shelf. The only time I get splinters is when working with OSB. Using what might have been that same piece of thin scrap, I glued and nailed a 1 and 1/2 in piece to the front. This was so I could install a light strip for you guys. Told you it was fancy. These hardwareless drawers are pretty cool. Let's build them. Cut a 1-in strip. Using a scrap/2-in piece, place it on the bottom of your drawer and nail that 1-in strip in place. Might want to upgrade to screws. Cut a piece to match your cabinet's width and depth. I got that flush cut bit out once more and routered in a fancy handle. You can also buy them. The handles, I mean, they can't sell you a cutout. They can sell you the template, but you know. Moving on. Dividing the height of your usable cabinet space by four and deducting two inches from that measurement gives you equal height drawers. Or you can make the top one or two just a little more shallow. Cut your sides to length. And don't forget to keep in mind the thickness of your material. My two side pieces were pocket screwed into the front and back. And then my front and back were screwed down to the base. And there you have it. Easy peasy drawers. Moving right along to the countertops. I bought some cheap 2x4s from the big box store. I needed 11 pieces for each top. First, I ripped them down enough to remove the rounded edge from both sides. I initially glued three of them together at a time since I don't have eight gajillion long clamps. I do have an all right collection of less than 24in clamps, though. Waiting for those to dry, I cut some 1 and 1/2 in strips for my cabinet face. I started with my longer vertical pieces and deducted 3/4 of an inch from the shelving width for my horizontal pieces and pocket holes will hold them together. Seriously, this isn't sponsored by Craig. Get everything centered and nail them in place. For the top front supports, I'm using that same 2x4 method, but this time they're laying down flat. You can use an electric hand plane to flatten your initial glue ups. I mainly use this to remove the hardened glue. Trying to be a little more friendly to my expensive planer. Speaking of being only three 2x4s wide, I can still run these through my planer. This clip is the exact length of how long it takes to fill up my 5gallon bucket. And it's full. Borrowing some longer clamps. I glued them up once more. We seem to have lost audio here. It's probably for the best. You better be careful cuz you're triggering my fight orflight response and I'm a flightless bird. Pro tip, if you use a little clear tape on your boards during glue up, they won't stick like that board did. I trimmed a bit off the front to remove the embedded clamping spots. Using precision, I mitered the corner. Oh man, that wasn't close. I'm just kidding. This was to figure out my angle because my walls aren't 90°. So, I had to kind of cut a little bit off so that it would push all the way to the wall. There she is. Woo! Cut that out. Return the 60lb top to the workbench and find your overhang for the miter saws dropped shelf. This I just allowed half an inch. Sanding everything smooth. This is the part that we all look forward to. So close. Where's that precision at? No stain color for me. I wanted to keep it light. Just four coats of this polyrylic. And now on to the main event. Breaking my big bad saw out of its little cardboard prison. Using the same leveling feet we previously used on the table saw cart, I installed those, allowing me to individually level each corner for accuracy. This extension cord is rated for a higher load than the 212 that's in my walls. If you plan on leaving something plugged in for a long while, pick up one of these outdoor waterproof couplings. Keep sawdust out, too. #firprevention. And there she is. Welcome to the family. Sorry I bought you before a bunch of them went on clearance. Then I finished cutting all these freaky complicated face trims. On to the doors. Cut your pieces to have a quarter inch overhang on all sides. I made a simple jig so that I could run my router around the interior and add a trimmed or inlaid effect. These are not highquality doors, just one pieces. Then I used a chamfer, chaffer, who cares, bit around the outer edge. Install your hinges and you're done. A wower workbench that's going to make your friends question how much you actually make yearly. This project itself cost me around $400 to $600. Not really sure. 10 sheets of OSB, I think 39 2x4s, and a little bit of hardware. That's really where they get you. Took me about 41 hours to complete. This is a huge project. It seems as though I've reached that point in the project where feel like I bit off a little more than I could chew. Being a big project, that means at the end it's a better, bigger feeling of satisfaction once you get it done. Hopefully, you learned a little something something, picked up a tip or two, and go check out these other builds right here. Workbenches, flip top carts, table saw carts, weekend projects, guys. Free plans. Go nuts. Check the description for additional tips and links to any of the products that we' used in today's video. Really just going to be the LED lights. And I actually bought the hardware and everything at Menard. So I'll find you a link to the LED lights. It's just a strip light. 3M tape sticks in real nice. Before you guys start going on, you can't use pocket holes in OSB. It's not going to hold up. That's kind of how the old workbench was built. So I trust the system. 3/4 inch OSB. If you're driving it in, I use an impact drill. Just be careful. I'm getting pretty good at it. You really should drill it in some of the way. You can hand tighten it. You're going to hear it start to crack and crink and start breaking some of the OSB. So, that's when you stop. You don't want to drive it until it stops cuz it's just going to snap all apart. There's two chickens cuz it's close to Easter. And that's when you buy I don't know how to get out of this sentence. H. You guys don't even have names. His name was the chicken. What's your name? There you go. All the doors are open. You He can't see anything. The doors are in the way.