Title: My TOP Money Making Project this Year! Truly Woven. Free Plans.
URL: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=DJougUCKHzw
Video ID: DJougUCKHzw

--- TRANSCRIPT ---

This simple project is an easy sale all year round and blah blah blah. Yes, I'll show you how you can transform a 1x6 by8 into $250 in less than 1 hour's time. But we need to talk about something first. There are far too many impostor builds for this project. Flashing their supposed woodworking skills. And in fact, all it is is smoke and mirrors. Can we get some smoke and mirrors, please? I supply 100% free plans to everything built here on the Who's the Voss channel. So, let me show you how it's really done. First step is to cut this board down to 48 in on your miter saw. This way, it's safer and manageable on our table saw. Set your table saw fence to 7/8 of an inch and set your blade height to be an eighth of an inch above the material that you're cutting. This way, at an oopsie situation, you're only getting stitches instead of a full reattachment. Back at the miter saw, set your angle to 45°. Find whichever side of your board at 7/8 of an inch. And that's going to lay down onto your saw. Make an initial cut to create that 45° angle. Flip your board. And we're going to cut four pieces out at 2 and 1/4 in. Make sure you leave your saw blade down until it is fully stopped. Otherwise, if you pick it up too early, it's going to slingshot your piece and fire it off the walls in your shop. A quick way to test your miter saw angles might save you a little headache medication down the road. Just take all your pieces, put them corner to corner, and they should create a square to where all of our little angle cuts where they meet. It should be pretty tight. You shouldn't have any gaps. If you have one that, you know, has a gap in it. You might want to check your angle, make sure you have it at 45° on the dot. Then we're going to flip our board and cut two pieces at 6 and 1/4 of an inch. And to finish up, we're cutting two more pieces at 10 and 1/2 in. And you're going to repeat this for all 10 strips. And with the scrap leftovers, you're able to aid the neighborhood in a vampire attack. Or you can cut out two more of these. I just want to caution you that when you're cutting these pieces out with these smallers, your little hand toes might get really close to that big fast spinny thing. You can use a push stick on the miter saw. It's why I keep this giant rubber pencil cuz it's a nice little rubber cushion at the end. Stay safe. work within your comfort zone. You already got 10 of them. You really need 12. Now that we have 12 projects to sell, you're going to get the free plans. You're going to cut out a couple of these shapes. And then we're going to cut them out of our piece of wood cuz we're making this a truly woven cross. A lot of people have been making these, however, they just cut it and they just round the end off. Customers are flipping it over. like, oh, amateur. So, you're going to cut out some of these little shapes. I have an A, B, C, and D. A and B are the same. C and D are the same. It's going to be this longer flat side. You're going to stick your piece of paper on there. You can glue it down if you want to. Uh, I just trace it. It's not that not that bad. I use a Sharpie fine point. You can use a pencil if you want to try not to have to sand off all your little Sharpie lines. And she's going to look like that. Just to show you on the 6 and 1/4 in piece as well. Just put your template on the longer flat side. Hold it down. Trace those notches. Bada bing. You can do this with a jigsaw. So before I walk over to my portable band saw, it cost me $200. It's the same price as one of these. I'm going to show you can do it with one of these. It's not that difficult. Maybe you don't have a portable band saw yet. That's fine. That's fine. No shame. I got a couple pieces of insulation foam. I cut a little notch so that my blade can kind of swim freely. And just a simple metal blade. I don't like to use wood blades. It just chews everything up. Just get a metal blade on there. Works out really well. This is actually a pretty thick blade. I like them a little bit thinner. gives you a little more maneuverability. I'm just going to cut my line straight. Do a little swoop motion. Flip it around. Finish my cut. Make it nice and straight. Just like so. Easy peasy. And if you happen to have a band saw, more power to you. Otherwise, you could always use your scroll saw, coping saw, just magnifying glass out in the hot sun. If you're going to be building all these little small crafts, honestly, a portable band saw that's going to take you places. That's that's a good tool to have. Cutting little intricate pieces out, cutting little corners off. It's a versatile tool. Now, it's time for the most important and fun part of your project. Sanding all 96 pieces. I don't sand the interiors of our notches because they're going to get covered up anyways. I do like to just kiss off this little bit just to sand those off just so they're kind of rounded. We cut them with jigsaw, band saw. It's going to be straight. I don't want that to be. And then sand off, you know, any pin marks or any writing, anything going on. Get them all nice and smooth. Why don't you take that pile? Okay, I'll be back in a minute. It if you get done, just do this one and then this one. I'll be back. Quick interruption. YouTube has recently dropped a new feature called hype. It's a way that you can tell YouTube that I'm making banger content and it helps my videos reach the masses. If you swipe left over the comment section, you're able to hype any of my content within the first 7 days of the original publication. And it would mean a lot to me if you extended that gesture of kindness. Back to the show. We are finally on to the assembly stage. Grab two of those 6-in pieces. Put them so the angles are both facing each other. And you're going to grab two 10-in pieces. And guess what? Put them so both the angles are facing each other. You're just going to take one of your guys, put them in the center there. This guy is going to pick them up. Bada bing. Then using a Tight Bond three, cuz why would I pick a different glue? I don't. There's some back there, but I Tight Bond 3 is what I use for planner boxes. Seems like I have way too much on hand at all times. So, that's what I use. Now, going to put a good dollop on there. Just kind of smear them around a little bit. And you're going to see that in about about a minute, all these little grain fibers, it's going to soak up that glue. It's going to almost appear dry. And what would happen if we just smacked this together right now is that glue would soak into the board and it wouldn't actually make contact to glue our two pieces together. So, we're just going to wait. You can already see this spot is completely dry. This is starting to get some around the edges. See those little dots that are forming in the center. If it doesn't stay milky, it starts to get this little dry consistency. Kind of move a little bit more of the glue around. Put a little bit more glue on it. And moving production to the edge of the workbench. I'm going to take one of those 2-in pieces. I'm going to put him right in the center using my fingers. just to kind of keep these two boards nice and flush around the corners. Just like that. Looks good. I am using a 23 gauge 1inch pin nail. Pin nails are a little bit different than brad nails. They don't have a head, so they're a little more concealed. Once we put some stain on this, no one's even going to know they're there. Putting one in the bottom of each. Flipping them around. Looks pretty good. And then repeat that for these other two spots. And if you guys do have gaps in your miters, just take a little bit of glue, put them right in there. Take a little bit of sawdust, sprinkle it on first. Kind of pack it in, and then just kind of rub it back and forth so that it fills in your void. You sand that off. No one will be the wiser. Amateur. Then you're going to repeat this step for the last 10 woven crosses. Chicken, you cool with using the pin nail for a minute? I'm gonna hit the little boy's room. Okay. Yeah, just just keep going until I get back. You want to get them? Yeah. Thanks. If you're looking for a really cool effect, take your torch. You can burn just the faces. You can burn the sides as well. Paint or stain your creations how you see fit. I like to take my Minwax Natural 209, just dump it into a little tote. Just drop them in, let them go for a little swim. Just take them out. It's a heck of a lot quicker than trying to intricately paint brush and get in all these little tiny crevice spots. And it's a little bit quicker. No, I don't wear a glove on my left hand. It's a lot of gloves in landfills. And try picking one of these up wearing gloves. You'll leave little these weird little spots on it. Your fingers don't do that. So, how many hallelujah can you get from one single board? I'm talking paper money, people. The board cost me $6.99, electricity of 3 cents, blade usage 2 cents. See the description if you guys would like an indepth mathematical figuring of how you can figure out how much those cost you in your shop. That's how much it cost for me. Glue 20. Nails 6. Stain 30 cents cuz I dumped it in a big tub and these all took a little bath. Total $7.60 for production of these products. When you file your taxes as a hobby, then you can start calculating your gas and mileage. That's when they're going to start asking you those questions. It's only me in the shop. I'm the only employee. That's a human being. I see you. I ship using USPS flat rate boxes. It's because FedEx is a 40-minute drive that way. UPS is a 45minute drive that way. So UPS is in town. If it's made from pine, it is not going online. So I don't list these online. Just a lot of time for replies, taking images, packaging, trips to the post office, which are never convenient. If it's if it's a cheaper project, it's just going to the craft show with me. That's where I do most of my selling. I do have an in-depth video on where to sell items if you guys are looking for a platform to sell on. I sell the same product to myself, same price, see who pays me out the most at the end. It's a fun little video. I also have a video of when to sell products. So, there's a helpful guide in there to when you should start actually planning, buying, getting ready to sell and make projects for holidays, seasonal, blah blah blah. Those are both two fun videos if you haven't watched those. So, we were able to build 12 woven crosses. They are selling for $22 each minus that $7.60 brings me a take-home of $256.40 per board. Takes me about an hour and a half just because of the intricacy of cutting out all the little shapes and you have a lot of little pieces you have to glue together. So, hour and a half, it's still over $100 per hour in your shop. So, that's the show. If you guys want to make them out of some nicer hardwoods, be my guest. You want to do some little glued up inlays, make them look really fancy, that would be really sweet. Build a little base for them, that would be cool as well. You can use my templates up until you stop making them 3/4 of an inch thick. Then things start to get a little wonky. All right. Uh, see you guys. Bye. After winter, it needs to shed its skin. Just take a handy pair of pliers, stick them in there, and start twisting it like you're eating spaghetti. That looks a lot