Title: From hobby to BUSINESS! This is the how I setup WHEN to build projects for my Woodworking Business
URL: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=CseumK08Sg4
Video ID: CseumK08Sg4

--- TRANSCRIPT ---

You've put in the work. You've built the projects just to hear crickets after hitting list item. Today, I'm putting a woodworking playbook in your hand to help you succeed year after year when it comes to making huge profits from your woodworking hobby. Everything provided here on my channel is 100% free and accessible to everyone at who's theos.com. By the time you think to yourself, "Dang, big box stores putting blah blah blah out already." You're weeks behind the competition. Whether you set up a booth at local craft events, sell on marketplace, or you have an online storefront for your products, this handy guide lists out categories that you should be focused on during different parts of the year. Again, this guide is universal across the entire crafting platform. So, if you make things out of corn husks, it still tells you when you should be focusing on what holidays and seasons. So, that's when you're going to start shucking. I don't I don't know any other corn terms. Valentine's Day official holiday is February 14th. Big box stores are setting Valentine's Day before Santa even comes down the chimney. I have a seven hot selling Valentine's Day haul that I am reusing this year. This love sign, Tic Tac towe dice, mailing letters, yarn hearts from scrap, nesting heart candles, which have their own video cuz that was actually the best selling product that I had. This wall art heart and tabletop heart set are always a big hit. And right after Valentine's Day begins to slow down, that's when I start to begin finding, sourcing, and getting ready for planter box season. I'll go find my pickets. Wintertime is the best time to buy them because the ground's frozen. So, the people that are building fences with fence pickets, that's weird. They're not buying them yet. Spring starts March 19th to the 21st and Easter is April 5th. These projects start hitting the big box stores right after Christmas in conjunction with Valentine's Day. And I like to begin creating these projects in January where there's kind of a little bit of a lull. I have a hopping Easter bunny toy video and a seven smalls that sell for high-profit Easter video. I also have a bunny template that I use to create a serving tray. I found that template at Family Dollar. Usually templates cost 30, 40 bucks. This one was five. St. Patrick's Day is March 17th. I don't have a video featuring any projects. I don't build anything for St. Patrick's Day. I know this holiday is just kind of fitted in between, you know, January, February, March. There's really not craft shows here where I live at cuz it's dead of winter. There's a few inside ones. They just don't do very well. So, I generally skip them. You'll see in the chart there are some green holidays, there's some yellow holidays, and then there's some red holidays. Green are definitely you should be building things, marketing them, and selling them. Those are the hot hot hot hot holidays. Yellow is it's they do okay. Red holidays, I just avoid them either. It's It's just a weird holiday that people really aren't like getting online going crazy over. If you're feeling in the St. Patty's Day spirit. You could build something like some lucky signs, more signs, clovers, this book stack, some themed gnomes, things of that nature. You can make some good money for Mother's Day, May 10th. People want a nice handmade gift, but they don't want to put in the work. And that's where we come in. Hearts, tealight holders, cutting shakuerie boards. You want a few projects that broadly cover popular hobbies. book holders, planter boxes, plant stands, wine bottle holders, bathtub shelves. Most of these projects are going to be higher priced, higher quality, nicer hardwood builds that take a little bit more of your Ni's time versus the kind of cheaper craft show decorative stuff. That's a quick hot sell at craft shows. High school and college graduations would be late May, early June. Again, this is planter box season for me, so I just skip out on the graduation stuff unless somebody requests me to make a sign. Quick interruption. YouTube has recently dropped a new feature called hype. It's a way that you can tell YouTube that I'm making banger content, and it helps my videos reach the masses. If you swipe left over the comment section, you're able to hype any of my content within the first seven days of the original publication. And it would mean a lot to me if you extended that gesture of kindness. Back to the show. Summer depends on when the weather begins to get nice. People start cleaning up their yards and getting excited about vitamin D. This would include chairs if that's your thing. Yard games are popular. Grilling cookout accessories do okay. I've not had much luck with them. I do have a summer sellers video that has a few different things that include free plans. One of them's from me, others are from other creators. And it's, you know, benches and outdoor stuff that you would generally be selling. Chicken, you married yet? Wedding season's May to October. Mayo, it's how I remember May and then O for October. Really hot sellers for weddings are signs, wedding arches, custom projects like cupcake holders and such, lanterns. Usually they have real deep pockets if they're getting married cuz it's a it's a yes ma'am kind of situation. And if you happen to live around a few wedding venues, it's a good idea to let them know of your talents. So if they need, you know, custom sign built, you're their guy. Memorial Day, last Monday in May, pretty much just dumping red, white, and blue on some boards. The 4x4 firecrackers are popular. String art, stars, flags, etc. The draped flag, I have a video on this build. Fourth of July follows these same projects. Big box stores begin to display these items late May, early June. Father's Day, third Sunday in June. It is like Mother's Day. Just a wide range of different projects to fit different hobbies. Bottle opener, bottle carrier, something that pairs well with his ability to sit in a chair for 6 hours without moving. Fishing things, watch holders, golf stuff. Most of these are year- round sellers as well. Back to school is late August to early September. I live in a university town, so on movein weekend, I parked a truck at Walmart in their fire lane and offer to drive large purchased goods from Walmart to their university for 20 bucks. Now, that's the best side hustle. It's not really a big selling holiday. Just I'd skip it. Halloween's on October 31st. Big box stores begin packing the shelves midepptember. You could build this bat, boo sign, the cutest kitty cat ever. Trio set of ghost and tombstones, trick-or- treat signed candy corns, and this monster guy all from one single 2x4. Coffins sell really well. The large ones are made to order, but the smaller tabletop version is very popular. Fall and Thanksgiving is a huge craft holiday. Competition begins to set the fall harvest stuff mid August to September. Pumpkins, leaves, anything orange, off-white, or this red color. My fall video is 2 years old. gives you a good glimpse as to what the early years of the shop looked like. There are a few projects in there that still are money makers today. Christmas, December 25th, we've covered pretty dang well. Every kind of tree imaginable. Yeah, all of these have free plans. They just keep popping up on the screen. Good golly. A short candy cane and one taller than I am. All of these projects from a single board and this cool snowflake. Walmart sets Christmas in September and it's been trending that they set it three days earlier every single year. It's a good time to lock down a few projects, begin sourcing material, and building a few projects to have in reserve in preparation to the Christmas madness. This Christmas haul allowed me to purchase the mini split system for the shop and my new miter saw. I'd say I had a pretty good season. This guy hasn't seen the light of day yet. I got to build a new table saw station. I got to redo the whole workbench cuz she's too big of a dog to go where I have my current miter saw. New Year's, you know when it is. Everyone's still kind of in zombie mode from Christmas. So, they really didn't have that 5day gap to purchase New Year's stuff. Heck, Walmart doesn't even set it out until pretty much Christmas Day to be like, "Hey, by the way, it's New Year's." So, I don't do anything for New Year's. You can make custom signs of like the year that it is if you wanted to. I didn't make any signs last year. It's just a skip holiday. At the beginning of December, I begin marketing my calendars. I have a forever calendar. You move the board. It lists all the days, you know, as they line up in the weeks for the month. That's fun. And then I do have a newly added in daily puzzle calendar. It's all in the all in the name. You try to get all the little pieces to fit in there to match the day and month that it currently is. And then tomorrow, you have to redo the entire thing. Near the bottom, you will see a birdhouse time slot. It might need to be adjusted for your specific region, but here in Illinois, it is dead accurate. I don't have any birdhouse build videos. There are three that were popular last year. I would probably make build videos for those this year cuz why not? And then we have the items that sell all year round. Every craft show is going to have these scattered on 90% of the tables. Wine bottle holders, cutting boards, custom signs, shelves, boxes, all super popular. They sell all year. If you have a little L of time, you can make a few of these. Sell those. You're always going to be busy.