Title: Simple Miter Saw Project turns HUGE PROFIT
URL: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=v_mILDIaxAc
Video ID: v_mILDIaxAc

--- TRANSCRIPT ---

$20 in materials, $80 in pure profit. I've sold 18 of these trees this year alone. Pretty soon, you're going to see a new miter saw sitting there. Just in case the algorithm is not doing its job properly, I'm dropping two videos this weekend. This guy with all its crazy funky angles. And this guy, how do we get it to look like that? I'm tired of content creators hiding their plans and angles and all these fun facts that they know just so they can make a quick buck off of you. free plans at the website who's thevoss.com. This build can be completed using cedar pickets or a 1x6 by8. I provide the plans for both. I'm appalled that nobody has corrected me yet, but I've been saying that 31.6 was a common rafter size and it's not. Your miter saw locks into 22.5 cuz that's the angle you need to create an octagon and it locks into 31.6 and that's how you make crown molding. Start by cutting the end of the board off to create our angle. Then we're going to flip our board over so that our angles are like this and not like this. And measuring from the longest edge of our board, make a cut at 32 in. Then make a cut at 28 in. And another cut at 8 in. And kind of repeat this same process for board two. Cut the end to make the angle. 24in piece. 20-in piece, 16in piece, and that little 4-in piece at the end, it's not going to cut into this edge of our board. It's going to cut into this angle. It's going to be a real cute little piece. Hey, since we've got a good amount of scrap and we know how to cut these little triangles now, I'm going to go make a quick $15,000. Yes, I'd watch that video. 13 14 15. I mean, it's not a bad video. I've just got questions. This is for you. Yeah. Thank you. And our third board, we're cutting a 12-in piece. That's it. Just one piece. Quick interruption. YouTube has recently dropped a new feature called hype. It's a way that you can tell YouTube that I'm making banger content, and it helps my videos reach the masses. If you swipe left over the comment section, you're able to hype any of my content within the first 7 days of the original publication. And it would mean a lot to me if you extended that gesture of kindness. Back to the show. This is going to be the back, the spine, the trunk of our tree, whatever you want to call it. And instead of just showing you a bunch of cutting videos, you're going to be scratching your heads. So, all that this is a 48 in 2x4 cut at 22.5° 90°. This board, a 2x4 cut at 15°, 22.5° angle, 90° angle. This guy, he's a thinner little piece of furring strip, whatever you want to use. Inch and a half, 1 inch thick material. It's not as thick as our 2x4. It's half the thickness. He's cut at 45° and 90°. And this gives us the sport for our spine. With mine, I am using pocket holes, Craig screws, however you want to pronounce them. I put two just going into here. Notice they're not centered because I don't want it to blow out this small corner. Same with this. I kind of hugged it towards the inside of our curve. That way it doesn't poke through or split out this spot. Little bit of glue. Put them all together. When you're putting this together, I just put one extra piece of stock underneath. And that makes this perfectly flush with the top cuz two thicknesses of this equals this. And we're going to assemble this tree from the front cuz I'm nailing and gluing these boards to these boards. So, I just wanted to show you guys I start with this board. He's the holy grail of the tree pieces. I don't know what this is. And that's because this joint is centered. It is aligned with it. And I know that's where I need to start. If I start it at the bottom and I accidentally put them too far down, it's going to mess everything up. If I put it too high, it's going to mess everything up. If I start at this end, these aren't touching. These are just continuations. this guy, he's the important one. And when I do this one, this guy is also going to land there. These joints don't have to be super strong because they're going to have nails and glue. And this board is going to help support them and keep them together. If you guys do not have the tools to make pocket holes, you can purchase one of these. Just has different size holes to help guide a drill. And it just slips on the front right here. Keeps everything nice and centered. You guys can put a couple pieces of dowel rod in here with some glue. So that would help structurally. And if you don't even have the means to get that done, just glue them. Put a screw. Put a screw. And really, most of our structural integrity is going to come from these two boards. So just make sure you glue them real good and nail them couple extra time. Give them a little extra loving. After cutting and assembling the main tree trunk, I did cut four pieces of 2x4 down to 16 in. And at a two-inch mark, I cut a nice little 45 off of it just to give it a nice little aesthetic feel. And then those pieces, the legs and the tree trunk, I stained with a darker ebony stain just so that it contrasted this crazy green that we're using for the branches. And that is just a Rustoleum two time ultra cover paint and primer. It does a great job on these boards. Just spray them one quick time. Real light dusting cuz we're running out. out. Ace Hardware now sold out of these cans. Going have to switch colors. It's an indooroutdoor spray paint. Does pretty good. Sorry, I was working on another project while I'm waiting for that to dry. It's always busy. I feel like a witch when I move these around. I don't know why. I'm going to lay this guy down so that my Craig holes are facing towards me cuz I'm going to put my boards over the top of them and hide them so you just don't see them from behind. If you want the tree to go the other direction, put the holes on the opposite side or they're just going to be visible. It's probably fine. This looks pretty cool when it's stacked up. You're going to get the fourth board. It's that size. I don't know off the top of my head. And we are going to center him over this brace. This is you just guess at this point. Tight bond three waterproof exterior glue. More than likely this guy's going to be outside. Tip him up. Squeeze out a little glue. I am using an 18 gauge 1-in brad nail. It's always what I'm using. If you'd like to guess how many nails this is going to take, sweet. Just want to avoid that spot. I know there's some screws in there. I don't want to ping off of them. It's not a fun time. Working our way down the tree. I'm going to take our next largest piece. I'm going to line that inside corner up where it's doing our arch. I'm going to take this little guy and I'm going to put them on the corner here till they touch. That's my spacer board. I put them on last. Might as well use them. All right. Dip them up. Little glue. Retouch these corners. If you want to recheck this, you can. Couple nails. And we're going to continue this until we reach the bottom of the tree. This last board, I want it to be square with the bottom. And generally, when I line this corner up, I don't make sure he's centered. But that's [snorts] center. I don't know. They just line up. Little glue just like so. And now we're going to work our way up the top. And this guy is pointing almost at 90° from where our trunk is. Anybody guess that many nails? Dang. To attach our legs, I'm just going around the base in a pin wheel pattern, starting with the larger faces of the board. So, I'm going to screw this guy on, flip them over, screw that back side on, then I can attach the sides because it's going to give me more space for those sideboards and a little bit more space for some glue. And to answer the age-old question, yes, painting and staining your material before you do the glue up significantly reduces the glue's hold power because you've already filled in all those little pores of the wood with stain and paint. So, not as strong, still pretty strong, just not as much. I also added an extra board just so it keeps this board from falling just straight over. Uh-uh. Get out of here. We've talked about it. We're not doing one of these that we have a nail counter. Talking profitability, three pickets for $3.28. Two 2x4 by8s for $355. That little scrap piece of one by material. I've been using scraps from my bins. I didn't calculate that into any of these. If you buy a one by piece of material or if you're buying those furring strips, they're pretty cheap. Add that in. Glue 17. Nails and screws 21. Electricity 0.07. Spray paint costing $4.98. I got about 25% left in the can after each use. So every four trees I don't have to pay for any spray paint. And blade usage is one penny. Now I want to make sure this information is crossed over as a gentleman did ask me. I haven't answered him yet. So we're putting it in both videos. I don't calculate my saw usage. You can have a depreciation for up to five years on your IRS taxes if you're filing as a business. Just you need the saw. You own it. There's no primitive maintenance. This guy, good job. It went down. Your saw blade is maintenanced. It is replaced. So, it's something that you can calculate cost per build. Now, my blades, just a spider 80 to blade. I bought them at Lowe's. They're 48 bucks a pop. One for that one, one for this one. They're both 10 in. It's great when I'm buying blades. I use them for about 6 months. So 6 months to a year. That's about how long your blades are going to last. Maybe a little longer if you're not using them as much. So I replace [snorts] mine every 6 months. I do it in January. I do it in July. And that's after the heavy seasons of planter boxes and Christmas. So then I get a new blade. And it's nice. $48 divided by that 180 takes me about 26 per day. I know for our saw blades. You're thinking that. How many hours are in a day? Takes me one hour for this. That equivalates to about one penny. And I'm not really cutting on it all that time. So, it's probably even less than a penny. Cedar's very porous. Not cutting anything hard. Not cutting any treated lumber. That's bad on them. Hardwoods, that's a little harder on them. So, it cost me $22.38 for the build. This guy is selling for $90 because this guy is selling for 100. This guy takes a lot more lumber, a lot more time. This guy, within 30 minutes, I can get one knocked out. I feel like 90 is honestly too sharp, but they're selling at 90, so I'm I'm leaving it alone. They're selling at 90. Cool. Might drop the price in a week or two, but that's what I'm at. 30 minute build. $67.62 is your take-home profit. Takes me about 30 minutes to build one of these. So, for this tree alone, you're making $13524 per hour in the shop. Bravo. Bravo. Hello. Hello. Hello. Right here. Yeah. Oh, there he is. Keep up. Keep up. [laughter] Oh. All right. All right. Do better.