Title: 6ft tall and Beginner Friendly! Spiral Christmas Tree. 
URL: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=WFimstpmBPY
Video ID: WFimstpmBPY

--- TRANSCRIPT ---

This low-cost, high-dollar build is sure to pay for all of those Christmas gifts you haven't even started shopping for. I got to go. I got orders to fill. Just in case the algorithm's not doing its job properly, I'm dropping two videos this weekend. This guy with all its crazy funky angles and this guy. Well, how do we get it to look like that? I'm tired of content creators hiding their plans and angles and all these fun facts that they know just so they can make a quick buck off of you. Free plans at the website, whoisthevos.com, for anything that we build. I've whipped up a cut list for both cedar picket and the 1x6x8. So, I know some people have problems finding that sweet-smelling cedar picket, especially cuz right now it's wintertime. And if you don't buy them at the start of the season before the ground thaws out, people buy these to build fences. It's ridiculous. First, I'm going to take my 2x4 and cut it down to 65 in. This shouldn't be a problem for my 1x6x8 brethren, but for our picket people, I'm going to be cutting them from this flat end, not where the dog ears are. With our first picket, I'm making my first cut at 36 in and my second cut at 32 in. Our second picket, we're cutting at 27 in, 21 in, and 16 in. And our third picket, we are cutting at 10 in and then 6 in. If you're planning to paint this project, now would be a good time to slap some paint on these background boards. I've included a few Christmas-themed options in my plans. However, I've only sold four painted trees. Quick interruption. YouTube has recently dropped a new feature called hype. It's a way that you can tell YouTube that I'm making banger content and it helps my videos reach the masses. If you swipe left over the comment section, you're able to hype any of my content within the first 7 days of the original publication. And it would mean a lot to me if you extended that gesture of kindness. Back to the show. And whether you painted your boards, you left them plain Jane, whatever you did with them, you're going to find the center of each of them. 6 in 3, 10 in 5, blah blah blah, some math. I also took my speed square and I marked it at 1 and 3/4 of an inch because that is half of my 2x4. So, when I smack that in there, it finds the half real quick and easy. I'm using Titebond 3. It is a waterproof exterior glue. Titebond 2 is exterior, not 100% waterproof. They more than likely will be putting this on their front porch and it's going to be outside. This This is my spacer board. It's 2 and 3/4 of an inch wide. It's been with me since the beginning. Don't know. So, I'm going to take my first board and I'm going to take this spacer board. I'm going to put them up here at the top. I'm just going to line them up so that there's no 2x4 right here. I'm going to put this on the top and I'm going to line up that center line with my 1 and 3/4 of an inch. I'm going to put some glue. And then I'm going to redo all of those measurement steps again. I'm using a 1-in 18-gauge brad nail. I don't think we've ever used a different size brad nail. A few nails. If you'd like to guess how many nails this build is going to take, had a great response last time. Thanks, folks. And we're going to take our 2 and 3/4 of an inch board, smack them in there like that, take our next smallest piece, line that center line up with my 1 and 3/4 of an inch line, put a little glue. I'm going to take this spacer out because it's also crooked. It's not a perfectly straight board. And then I'm going to push it up against my speed square. So, not only am I finding the center of my board, I'm also making it perpendicular to this other board. Couple nails. I'm going to repeat this process until I run out of boards. Just to kind of fill in this little gap of space. I know last year all of my Christmas videos had a little sing a little tune to it. Most of my older videos have that going on. But ever since then, as YouTube does double takes and checks up on my stuff, they're finding out that I've done that and that I don't own any of the rights to those songs. So, I don't like sharing my ad revenue with Rihanna that much. Now, I see what you're talking about. The tree's supposed to be kind of a point and right now it's pretty blocky. And maybe it'll work itself out. To get the most bang for our board three, I'm cutting a piece at 35 in and another at 16. I just feel like it's a lot of cutting shots. Next, we're going to 30 and a half, 20 and a quarter, which is 50 and 3/4, >> [snorts] >> and then 18 in, 68 and a quarter. And lastly, board five, we're just cutting off a 25 and 1/4-in piece. That's it. This part might make you frustrated with your tree being all goosey. If you take just an extra piece of 2x4, slide them underneath both sides if you'd like, makes it real nice. All my pieces stacked up again from biggest to smallest, you're going to take your smallest piece, you're going to put them up here at the top. That's actually a horrible spot to start. We're going to We're starting at the bottom cuz it makes more sense. This point and this point. So, the bottom of this board and the bottom corner of this board. I'm going to put my board just like that. And that's where it's going to go. And you're going to do that the whole way up. Bottom corner, bottom corner, bottom corner, bottom corner one or two more times to show you something cool. And as you start to enclose this piece, you're going to see the bottom corners actually begin to get tighter and tighter to where this board intersects this bottom corner. So, bottom corner and to the top. So, that's how you get that. It kind of raises up. Yeah. Right there, right here. Kind of looking at like my board's right here. So, I got plenty of nailing space. I would just avoid putting nails cuz we are going to cut this part off. So, you don't need to put a nail in this corner. You don't need to put a nail in this corner. So, just know you you're kind of in the no man's zone. It's going to cut that section off. >> [clears throat] >> Heck, yeah, why not? I'm going to apply glue where I can and shoot a couple nails. 1-in brad nail isn't going to go through my material. It's perfect. She ain't plugged in. Calm down. I just get a straight edge. This is the board that I use when I'm using my saw and I want to turn it into a track saw. Inch and a half is on the right side of my blade. 5 in is on the left side. So, if I want to make a comfortable cut cuz I'm right-handed, whoop, it's going to be inch and a half. And that's why I've set up this to be an inch and a half that away. So, my blade is going to hit this little corner. At the top, it being a 6-in board for our bottom, I know 3 in is my center. So, I need to go an inch and a half past that. So, that's why this guy is at 4 and a half inches. And that ensures every one of these if it touches inch and a half, my blade's going to touch it. And then this guy, your loosey-goosey board you used so that it didn't wiggle wobble. Just make sure it's out of the path of your blade. You don't want the blade to catch that. And setting your blade depth so it's about an eighth of an inch past that bottom board, you don't want it to be all the way down. That's dangerous. And although our project's starting to get a little heavy, I did secure my clamp at the top to the workbench just so nothing goes haywire. And then slicing the ends to make it look more like a tree. Cedar is a very porous wood and it slices like butter. If you've never worked with it. If you're using 1x material, just be cautious for any kickback. And now all your boards have a perfectly straight, clean edge. At the point, you might have a little bit of that 2x4 sticking out and that's one of the reasons we set the top to be a little bit farther so we had less to deal with. All you need to do is just cut it off. Pull saw, jigsaw, reciprocating saw, or just anything except for the table saw, I would say. To create the legs, I cut four pieces of 2x4 down to 16 in. And at the 2-in mark with 45° angle, I just nipped the edge of them so that they had this nice clean look. If you're building this from that 1x6 material, you can make the legs from pine. They're plenty strong. But with cedar being porous, it doesn't really have much structural integrity. And if I glued the board in there, over time it might work itself loose due to weather and, you know, just the forces of wind and different things that these trees might experience. That's why I'm building them out of the 2x4s. It also looks like a sturdier, heftier bottom. And just going to take one extra leg, set it over here. This guy's going to go right there with a little glue. Just using a 2 and 1/2-in screw. Actually, Kreg screws. I got I don't know why I have so many 2 and 1/2-in ones. I'm just trying to get rid of them. And as I work my way around the base, I like to just put a square on here just to make sure everything's nice and flat. This guy's not sticking down, it's going to make everything all wobbly. And these two sides are the hardest to do, but if I take my board and I just smack them against the bottom of this board, kind of holds it in place. And this is what the leg configuration looks like once you get it complete. Kind of has a windmill type of look. Let's talk profitability. I bought that at Walmart. I put my own caster wheels on it, but you buy the top and the bottom separate. It's the most adorable kit you can buy. Five pickets, $3.28 each, two 2 by 4 by 8s at $3.55 each, glue $0.17, nails and screws I'm putting it in here for you, $0.21, completely guessed. Electricity was $0.15. It takes me about an hour to knock one of these out. 45 minutes if I'm really chugging along. I got the pickets ready to go. Everything's groovy. Equipment usage is one penny or whatever we're going to start using per hour. And somebody asked me in the last video how I factor in that total. I'm not really counting the cost of my machine cuz I bought it 10 years ago. It's 150 bucks. Nothing. Cost me nothing per hour. Plus, it's you own it at this point. There's no primitive maintenance. There it is. Your machine. And my blade is what's important. The blades cost me about $48 each. It's a Spyder 80-tooth blade that I'm picking up at Lowe's. 48 bucks for that. You can use your blade for about 6 months to a year depending on the usage. At that point you need to replace it or sharpen it because a sharp blade is far safer than a dull blade. I don't sharpen them. I don't know anyone around here that sharpens them. So, out they go, in ones come in. So, every 6 months I replace my blades. I do it in July, I do it in January. And you just keep that process up. 180 days in that 6 months, $48 for the blade itself. 48 divided by that 180 gives me about $0.26 per day. And that's about 1 cent per hour of running the machine. And you also have to think about I'm not cutting boards the entire hour. I'm cutting this, which is very soft. It loves this stuff. If you're cutting vinyl plank, know you're going to replace your blade afterwards cuz it dulls them in a heartbeat. Looking at $24.04 for that total build cost. I'm getting $100 all day. 120 if we're painting them. I Again, this way more profitable than the painted one cuz it takes a lot more time. $75.95 is my take-home profit. Not counting gas. Just make a trip when you're going up there. I don't ship them. I don't handle them. There it is. That's going to eat all of that cost away because how are you going to ship this? Same with the snowflakes. They're just too large. I don't ship those snowflakes. I don't ship a majority of my small crafts because it just costs so much money. People aren't going to want to pay the same cost as the item for shipping. Go. Knock this guy out. Sweet. Fun. Hope you learned something. Bye. Well, this is new. She done don't like that knot there, bud. She didn't like it.