Title: This DIY Wood Finish is seriously my new favorite stain.
URL: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=lrLRBltiPyk
Video ID: lrLRBltiPyk

--- TRANSCRIPT ---

Wouldn't it be nice that after buying a collection of tools and lumber and screws and fasteners, you didn't have to start shelling out a whole bunch of money on stain? What if there is a way that you could get stain and achieve these beautiful browns using only two ingredients that are found right outside your house? You know those pesky seeds that your tree or worse your neighbor's tree drop into your yard and you paid that kid from down the block a dime to pick them up for you, but you didn't know how many you actually had in your yard. So, you ended up shelling out 210 bucks. And once October hits, go fill up a bag of walnuts. Water's free if you put a bowl out before it starts to rain, you can just use your neighbor's hose. Dang it. If you really like your garage and enjoy sleeping in it, this can all be done inside the comforts of your home. However, it's going to wreck a skillet and it's going to smell horrible. probably going to soak into the clothes. You're going to have to wash everything. Don't do it inside your house. Look, eye contact. Don't do this inside your house. I picked up a cheap 12-in ceramic skillet. Plugs right in the garage. It's perfect. Now, we're going to remove the husks. We're not squirrels. We don't care about the nut in the center. All we're after is that nasty gross outside. And here's the most important part of this video. Black walnut contains juglone. probably mispronouncing it. Jugalone is a naturally made chemical and it will stain literally everything. Your workbench, your clothes, your hands. And Dawn dish soap's not coming to save the day. We're not ducks. And why are they putting it on so many ducks? Ducks are freshwater birds. They don't go in the ocean. When you think oil spill, you think oceans. Are they spilling oil in lakes? The only thing that really is going to help get it out of your skin, I've heard, is lemon juice. So, you put a little lemon juice, maybe a little sand, just something for an aggregate to help kind of rub it in. That's what's going to help you. My walnuts are very dry, so it's pretty easy to get the husks off. I take that back. Little ASMR. I have successfully shelled 25 husks off of the walnuts. Just going to throw these outside for the squirrels. Kind of jabbed at them earlier in the video. These gloves I can keep. My walnuts were very dry if you're using them that are green or that have some liquid in them. These just sat outside for 2 weeks while I didn't film the video. And you want to wear some sort of a latex glove so that the liquid doesn't get through to your hands if they are wet. Then you want to wear something that has a little bit thicker, tougher material. So that way the sharp edges and things don't cut through this glove. And then why' you even put them on? Then we're just going to add water to cover these walnuts. The more water you add, the more you have to let evaporate. So, just until your mixture starts to float. Same way you'd add milk to your cereal. You know what I mean? I've set my temperature to 250° F, 120° C, and I'm going to let this brew and mingle get to know each other for about an hour with the lid on. Letting it with the lid on, all that steam, everything's going to stay in place. The last hour, I'm going to remove the lid and let the steam do its thing. Let it leave. Once you feel satisfied, grab a test piece of wood and dip it in. For a darker result, continue to let the water evaporate to create higher concentration and a darker stain. During my first hour of simmer, I had some time for self-reflection. And that's when I realized I used way too many walnuts. 25 walnuts, that is a strong brew. And you can achieve a very nice dark stain with seven or eight walnuts. You don't have to have 25 in such a small pot. So, I didn't let a lot of my water evaporate because it's already very dark. You can see that when I was stirring it with a piece of wood. So, all we need to do now is move it from this pan into a storage container. I'm doing so by just grabbing a jug, using it as a filtering system cuz again, you're not using this again for anything else. Couple clamps on top. Just use an old t-shirt. You know, it's actually the back of this shirt. I'm just not going to turn around. There you go. We're just going to fish it out and put it into here. If you got a ladle, you can use that. Going to scoop out some of this delicious yummy I don't I'm done. It's not yummy. And press it. Oh, so you guys can't see. Look at that. Oh man. Oh, I got to do something with this. Ah, the other half of my jug. And now we see if it lives up to the hype. I have two stains. Obviously, the homemade stain we have just made. It's be silly to do it without. And a Minwax dark walnut stain that we're pretty much trying to mimic. I have a couple pieces of wood here. black walnut, piece of pine, and a piece of plywood oak. Let's start out with our Minwax dark walnut. That's pretty. See you pretending to be black walnut. I know you're not. This is what I'm excited about. Black walnut on black walnut. It's a lot lighter. Moving on to pine. Oh, pine's real pretty with it. Oh, wow. Pine comes out beautiful. And then this guy. Apparently, we should have compared it to golden oak because that's what she's coming out as. She's not as dark as a dark walnut stain. Not as dark as an ebony stain would be. Let's Let me get a golden oak. One sec. One sec. My black walnut samples, the homemade stain kind of washed out. Gave it that weathered brown look. It did tighten up some of the grain just because it has those tannins as opposed to our Minwax stains, the dark walnut stain. You can see a lot of color variations in that piece. Same with this guy. That's actually just a wood grain. But you can also see those smaller lines and they're less defined in our homemade sample. And that's the tannins at work. Because we didn't use a pre-stain with our chemically made stains, you're going to have that effect if you just slap this on your workpiece. And that's true for any type of wood. Moving on to our pine. Again, it is giving it that nice unison color. Got just that little bit of grain in the center. looks pretty as opposed to the golden oak which you can again you see a little blotchiness and that's due to no pre-stain. It doesn't have tannins. Again, same thing when you're going to that dark walnut. You can see the darker lines. That's just how the tree grew up and that's what your piece is going to look like. Now, moving on to our oak samples. You can very well see that grain differential in the piece for our golden oak. And then our homemade stain looking nice. That Minwax stain, it's kind of pulling some of the grains out. You have some lighter, again, blotchy spots. So, we aren't using a pre-stain cuz I didn't need a pre-stain for this. So, why give them the upper hand? To learn more about tannins and how they work, some other household chemicals that you can use to weather, age, or stain your boards, I have another entire video on a ton of different samples. We do it on a ton of different woods. really fun video. I will put a link in the description for you guys to go check that video out if you find this video fancy, too. Kind of feel like I'm rambling at this point. Speaking of tannins, if you use a stainless steel pot or certain metal containers for storage, the metals can react with those tannins and give you a different result. And another thing I forgot to have mentioned is that you can just put your walnuts in a 5gallon bucket with some water. Put it outside and let the sun evaporate the water. It'll kind of do the same thing without you having to handle all of those walnuts. You ever had a bucket of walnuts sitting around? You dump the liquid out and it's brown. It's cuz you've made this without even knowing. Aha. So, this is where I've been for 66 days. building a new backdrop, moving things around on the wall, taking out two cabinets that were previously in the last video, but no, behind this bookcase, there's actually a whole another room. It's kind of spooky when there's no lights on. And we still have a bit more work to do. The wife and I built this all by ourselves as we did the current garage and our house. This was going to be a series of videos in the classic who's the Voss format to teach you how to do the exact same thing, but due to time constraints and the fact that filming and editing add a huge amount of time to a project, we decided to hunker down and get it done before winter. This space is going to primarily be used for storage of crafting totes that are filled up, ready to go. Shipping. I'd like to open up to have a spot that I could actually do some merchandising of who's the Voss stuff. And I need space for all of that. And that's where this room comes in. It also be nice to have a small office set up so I could keep camera equipment and things that really shouldn't just be living in sawdust. They can be tucked away back behind me, easily grabbed when needed. So now we have another room and more to do when we file taxes. So, go check out that walnut thing. That was pretty cool. All right, see you guys.