Title: This 5 Minute Project Makes Money Fast!
URL: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=z3hVtYpCqtQ
Video ID: z3hVtYpCqtQ

--- TRANSCRIPT ---

Fiveminute project, $10 in your pocket. 60 units from one 2x4. It's time to amplify your monthly revenue. Every so often, I share a money-making project from my weekend craft show adventures. I like to show off popular categories such as furniture, home decor, kitchen and dining, blah blah blah. Anything that you can make a quick buck on. And in this video, I'm covering my favorite category of all time, entertainment. You can make between 31 all the way up to 217 of these from one single piece of 2 by material. Let's say you only sold these for $2 each, an absurdly low number, given that it takes seven big old nails. You're still profiting over $100 per 2x4. And I'm selling these for $10 each all day long. So, grab a 2x4 and that box of nails that you've been itching to find a purpose for. First, I'm going to cut this in half because I can't cut the end of it. So, 48 in is our next best option. If you wish to use our $130 set of starter tools, you'll have to purchase 2 by two material. With our 2x4, I'm ripping this baby right down the middle, leaving the curved edges and everything. No looking back, especially when running the table saw. The thing I hate doing the most in the shop is ripping a 2x4 perfectly in half. I started with this end. It started to pinch closed. I thought it was just because of this knot. Started from the other end. Got to here. She pinched closed again. To solve this, when you are at this point, you're going to feel the resistance of the saw that it's going to want to start trying to slingshot it back at you. So, you just kick it off. I just use a nail or a wedge or something. You're just going to drive it down into this end to pull the two pieces apart and finish making your cut. That's it. I I didn't even unplug this. I got to go. This is dangerous. Now, we cut our wood slivers into 3-in blocks. A whole bunch of them. And with all of our pieces cut, we need to drill a hole in the top. I'm using a 1in forstenner bit. And I'm going to go about 2 in down into my material. Draw an X on the top of it. And instead of trying to hold it and get loosey goosey and you'll get halfway down and this thing will start spinning out of control, I made this. It's a very simple jig, scrap piece of wood. It holds my board this direction so I don't have to hold on to anything. It's secured in place without clamping it down and doing that each time. And it also holds it this direction, which is also important for our next step. Again, 1-in forstenner bit. It does have a tendency to want to wander since we are in end grain. So just go kind of slow. Get it started. Just like that. We're going to repeat that for all of these guys. And the ultimate perk of this jig is it puts that piece in the same spot every time if you wanted to use your drill press. Now that we're finally done drilling all 60 of those holes, we're going to drill another hole, but this time it's going to go in one of the long sides of your piece. Simply mark the center with an X. And depending on what size nail you're using depends on your drill bit size. I have a 4in 20D common nail. And that takes a 1364th. What a crazy number. Just run-of-the-mill drill bit. And all that you're going to be doing, drilling straight through this piece. You're going to go through the center there cuz it's hollowed out. And you're going to go just so it barely kisses through this piece. You don't want it to go all the way through the bottom. You want it to just kind of sit on there. And this is where the second part of your jig comes into play. Simply lay the piece down inside, get it all lined up just one time, and you have an easy, repeatable cut or drill, whatever you want to call them. You can use that round over bit to hit the top and bottom edges of your block. However, I just find it easier to take it over to the belt sander and give it a light touch. Here, I sand all the larger surfaces just to get rid of any lettering or scuffs that might have happened with the table saw. Then holding that block at about a 45°ree angle, I give it a light amount of pressure on each of the shorter edges just to get rid of that completely squared corner. Takes care of all the burrs and it vastly improves the overall quality of this product. Why didn't I just take my 2x4 and slice an inch and a half piece a bunch of times down the way? Well, I just didn't like the look of it because I'm drilling into this. It gives me a little bit more tear out. If you guys want to give it a try, go for it. I do like that in its storage state, you have the end grain is what you see versus having end grain down the side. I think that's a nicer look. And right there's the answer. I just like the look of them more. But what the heck is it? Where does my phone go? And that's who would pay $10 for this? It's a little game called Seven Nails. Why is it called Seven Nails? I'm not sure. because it actually takes eight to 12 nails depending on how you want to play. So, whatever. So, what the objective is is to take your nails. You're going to put one nail in the center like so. And you're going to balance all seven of the rest of them on top of this one nail. So, how level is my workbench? Pretty good. Okay, that's all right. No. And I don't think you can do this. I think this is cheating. Where you put it like this, you stack them on top. Cheater. We need to talk about the nails. Before I show you how to master this game here, I'm just using a simple common nail, 20D, 4 in long. 15 bucks for the box. I'm able to load 18 of our projects up per box I purchase. Takes me to about 80 cents per project. It's pretty good. Now, for comparison, this is a 3 and 1/2 in 16D nail. And come on, you can use stakes if you wanted to. This This is way over budget. I think each one of these was like a $119. So, yikes. This is one I thought it took seven, but it takes eight. I'm going to give you a quick five count just to make sure you want to learn this right now. Five, four, 3, two, one. Take one nail, lay it on the the tabletop. Put one nail like this. Alternate to the other side like this. Put a nail here. Put a nail here. They can be closer to the center. These guys are gigantic. Whichever way the head is facing, put your head the other way, like so. And then you're going to clamp her down. You're going to pick it up. You're going to put her on top. And all of the nails are now balanced perfectly on top of one nail. Show you again on the seven nail game. Lay it down. Pop your first nail in. Scoot it back so I can use in front. Alternate your direction. Put it like this. Pick them up. Let them sag. You've won. Now, that is with the seven nail game. So, this takes seven nails. You can keep going as many nails as you can fit on your little nail. That end one might fall off, but heck no, it didn't. There you go. 18 nail game. you're just losing money because you're putting more nails into it. That's why I only give them seven to start out. Sell them for whatever you feel is an appropriate dollar amount given your demographic location, skill set, and evaluation of your time. If you didn't file as a business, I wouldn't worry about overhead costs or per item dollar amounts that you buy. It's not a bad idea to keep track of it just in case the IRS is like, "You're a business." Cuz that happened to me. But sell them for whatever you want to sell them for. Free downloadable plans. Who's theos.com? It does have a small section on what it looks like to beat the game. So you can cut that out, fold it in half if you want to show people that. Um, yeah, that's all I got though. So, one of the coolest projects we've built. I'd say top 10. Top 10 coolest projects. I'm gonna go sit down. Bye.