Title: HUGE Profit from a 1x6x8 EVERY TIME. Beginner Woodworking Project
URL: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=CiNO4GIUN04
Video ID: CiNO4GIUN04

--- TRANSCRIPT ---

In the last video, I showed you guys my $137 tool starter kit. This is the tool kit I started out with as a Wii lad. Notice most of it's missing. And this build is unique because it requires every tool we had just talked about. Now, we can start making some money and some sawdust. Grab a 1x6x8 piece of pine and print out the free plans. All of my woodworking plans are free and available at who'sthevoss.com. Then, I like to measure the width of my template. All four of these are the same exact width when printed out, but printers be crazy. So, if they blow them up or make them a little smaller, I don't want to throw a number up there and it'd be wrong for you. I start on the 1 inch line because why is this guy moving around? Probably in the comments. Starting on the 1 in, I am looking at five and a/4. Going to deduct that 1 in. So, four and one/4 of an inch. And once you have that measurement, mark it six times down the end of your board. Then using our combination square, draw a line across your board. Now we need to cut out our shape. Whoa. Okay. Yeah, we didn't buy scissors. That it's not in the kit. Go to your kitchen. The kitchen should have scissors. So with our pieces, this is going to be the back. The next piece, the very front. This guy has three cutouts. So, a this piece with a 2 and 1/2, a 2 in, and a 1 and 1/2 in cutout. And that's going to be for our other two templates. No reason to waste another sheet of paper trying to make a template. You don't need all that sitting around. So, we're just going to trace these templates on our board. What I like to do, just line up one of the flat edges with the edge of the board. Why make all that extra cutting? Then, just using a nail. That's all right. We use a nail. It's been approved. Take your hammer. We're just going to mark the little center spot here. Get it all lined up. Center spot. Same with this guy. We're going to put him here on the edge. I was going to have to use this hammer in like a funny way cuz he's really not needed on this project, but now I don't have to. Before cutting my board into these smaller pieces, I like to drill out the holes while I have a larger board to hold onto. I used a 1-in forstenner bit for this hole, a smaller 5/8 in bit near the edge of our 3-in hole. And since I do not have the exact sizes to match the plans, 1 and 1/2 in, and a 2 and 1/8 in hole saw for the three on the end, I placed a scrapboard underneath to prevent blowout. And once the hole saws center arbor goes through my material, I flip the board over and finish from the backside. You can then start cutting the straight lines using your hands saw. Even if the material doesn't fit inside of the miter box, you can still use it as a 90° reference. Or you could simply attack it using a jigsaw. And here I'll finish making all of my cuts on camera so that way you guys don't think I snuck off to my CNC machine or something silly. Then I'll just fill this void of time with a couple woodworking jokes. Why did the carpenter get fired? He just couldn't make the cut. Why did the woodworker stop making furniture? He just got bored. I had to hammer a piece of wood in my carpentry job interview. I nailed it. Why did the clamp get fired? >> Couldn't hold it together. >> How do you make a small fortune in woodworking? >> You start with a large one. And now everything is cut out. You're going to have this guy, this funky shaped guy goes on top. The smallest hole, this guy cut edges are going to face the sides. Next smallest hole, next smallest hole. And then this big chunky guy on the top. And yeah, it's a little thick. So, I'm going to ditch one of these because it was 3/4 inch material. I wanted to try to keep this close to square. That's Whoa. That's just way too many holes. So, I'm going to ditch the smallest guy. So, I've got this. Yeah, that's what I'm That's what I'm talking about. Grab some sandpaper and just hit the interior of this project. Don't worry about sanding the outside quite yet. And now it's time to glue everything together. I'm using a Tight Bond 3. It's a waterproof exterior glue. It's going to be perfect. I have lined out my pieces so that all of the centers line up. I'll show you that here as we're assembling. So, I did a dry fit. It looks good. I've also lined up that all of these kind of nasty cut edges I haven't dealt with yet. They're going to be at the top. That's going to make sanding a little easier because of our legs. As we are gluing up, I don't want to slather glue all over this because there's not going to be any glue on this spot. So, really, I'm going to flip these over. Put a little glue. Smile. They're not exactly the same. That's all right. That's okay. Flip him over. And this is where I'm going to start looking at this center hole or that my head's going to be in the way because I want it to be perfect looking down the center. And then you're just going to repeat this for every piece, stacking them up. And you can see it's a perfect cone shape in the center. Even though our sides are not perfect, that's all right. Right there. It doesn't want to slide around. It seems to have set up a little bit. I'm just going to throw two clamps on it. We just wait for this to dry. We'll check on it tomorrow. If you only have two clamps, you could also use rubber bands or just a heavy weight on top of them. They're not structural. They're solid the next day. They're good to go. Then grab that adhesive sandpaper, scrap piece of wood. The heck. And then we're just going to sand this baby smooth. If your masterpiece has a slight wobble, you can see that these two corners are what it's rocking back and forth to touch. These two corners make contact at all times. You're going to sand one of the alltime contacts. So, you're just going to flip them over. A gentle sanding. See if it took all the wobble out here. Yeah. Also could just be the workbench slightly off. I got a bunch of sawdust on here. And you keep doing that until the wobble is completely gone. Now you have hours upon hours of fun. Grab a set of marbles. You're going to dump them in the top. They're going to use that tornado to come out the bottom. You're going to use the shooter marble to hit them into this little cove on the other side. I'm just kidding. That's not what it's for at all. Bada bing. You know what this does? You put your phone in the top of it. Bam. It's music for the world. And it has that fancy little V cutout since your phone speakers usually aren't dead center. Got that comment a lot when we made the previous model, which is still a crowd favorite, mainly because of its compact size. And this guy does a great job. Don't believe me? Make one and try it out for yourself cuz music is copyrighted. And I could hold my phone like this, put it in here, and then just turn the volume up in editing for $15 each. That includes a clear coat stain or just really any color stain. I get four of them out of a 1x6x8. That's $60 out of a 1x6x8. Just built the first project with the new tools, you know. Hey, round of applause. And look at it. It's super freaking cool. It boom boom hits you with sound. If you thought 15 was too low and $80 was too high, pick a number in between. But also, you need to kind of get out of the mindset that you're not selling this to you. You're selling it to the public. So, maybe research the public a little bit instead of yourself. Have you I haven't bought anything from a craft show in years because I can make it myself. So, I don't price it based off what I want to buy it for. Price it off of what the customers are going to pay. Thanks for watching. 15 bucks. Don't you value your time and effort? What about all the electricity? And you ate a Snickers bar earlier. Didn't you put that into the price of what you're selling it for? Yes.