Title: DIY Woodworking Tool that's actually helpful.
URL: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=SdbSTNmtNUk
Video ID: SdbSTNmtNUk

--- TRANSCRIPT ---

Woodworking jigs are a great addition to your workshop. They enhance precision, repeatability, and efficiency in woodworking tasks, especially performing repetitive cuts or operations. They help to ensure consistent results, reduce errors, and improve safety. A quick web search will show you that there are thousands of jigs that you could make for each individual tool in your shop. This wall I have dedicated to only being different jigs that I can build to help me do various tasks. And I haven't ever built a jig and only used it once. Now, there are all kinds of different jigs that you can purchase online, but we know how to make things and there's definitely not a shortage of wood. And today, I'm going to add a jig to that wall. Super pumped. Jigs can be helpful no matter your level of expertise. And if you're new to woodworking or at a beginner level, jigs can be more useful as you hone in your skills. I've even saw a thread of where a man only uses a circular saw in a few different jigs that he has made instead of owning a table saw. It's a bit extreme, but jigs will get you there. In front of me, I have a 1/4x 2x4 ft piece of popppler from the big box store, some leftover 1/4in Luon board, a bolt, two washers, and a little screw head. Let's get to work. First, I cut two pieces of that popppler board to 1 and 3/4 of an inch. Then, I measured and cut the remaining piece perfectly in half. Ooh, so freaking close. Assembling the first piece is quite straightforward. You have two longer boards, your two skinnier boards. Just going to pop some glue on this guy. And it's going to be longer, that 1 and 3/4 versus 1 and 1/2 in. I'm just going to put it so the little tab sticks out past the bottom. Repeat that for the front. But the front I want to stick out an additional, let's say about a quarter of an inch. Little glue on the top. Take our other board, sandwich them on top. And don't forget, one edge is going to be sticking out. If you're a humbled, patient person, you just throw a clamp on that. wait overnight. I want to speed things along. Just using an 18 gauge, 5/8 inch long nail. Gonna shoot a couple into each side. What? I thought you were in Bermuda. If you'd like to get This is so silly. If you'd like to guess how many nails this build is going to take, leave your comment down below. Happy nail counter. It's kind of silly for things that take 10 nails. Spoiler alert. And just three on each side. Line up this front. Again, keeping that lip. Repeat that for the other side cuz they're only 5/8 of an inch long. Since I put two in the top, one in the bottom, doing one in the top, two in the bottom. Stagger them. Not waiting for that to fill up. I bought a bigger compressor so we wouldn't have interruptions during the show. I also thought I had it turned off. There you have it. Our first piece. You guys get antsy and you're like me right now. Taking a bolt, threading that through. There's the sizes. I'm not sure off the top of my head where these little tabs are. Goes in the bottom. Pop him on the top with this guy. A 5/16 by 18. Uh-oh. By 2 and 1/4 in. Pretty sure these are one quarter thread. So, I don't think this is the right Yeah. rut row. We put the tabs on the bottom here so that the little bolt head wouldn't be affected if you set it flat on top of a workbench. We still have stuff to add. So that way you can still slide it around since you wouldn't be able to put it on this side due to the knob. With our scrap of Lu on board, I made a cut at 36 in. Then I ripped my Luon board to 1 and 3/4 of an inch. This used to be my main workbench in the center of the room. Now it's not. Future build spoiler. My table saw needs its own wheelie cart and an outfeed table so it's not attached to this five foot workbench. And I understand that everything's on wheels, but who has the time? Move all this stuff around. With our freshly cut strip, I'm going to measure in 1 and 3/4 of an inch on both edges. Connect them diagonally. just like so on both ends. And using a one quarter inch forstenner bit, just drilled out that little spot in the center. Find and mark the center of that board. I'm going to line it up with that smaller piece that we bumped out. Put a little glue on there. Delicious. If it squeezes out a bit, not a big big problem. Putting those little tabs on the workbench. Lining this up just so perfectly. Just like that. If you want to check this for square, he's gone. If you want to check it for square, throw a square on there. Then still using that 5/8 of an inch nail. I'm going to try my hardest to drive it straight into that. I don't have a lot of real estate to play with, but I'm going to give it a go. Then using string, yarn, or paracord, just run a line from one end of that Luon board to the other with your knob all the way at the top. And it's spelled W O O D. I think there's another D. It just occurred to me that I'm illiterate and I've never had to spell it out loud before. If you're wanting to put a curve in a piece of wood, an elongated curve that you don't happen to have a 5-ft diameter round circle to make such a curve, cuz you know, it's easy with a gallon jug or something. But what happens with the bigger curves, they're a little bit trickier. You can put a grid pattern and eyeball it. You can cut a bunch of pieces of paper out, you know, and fold it in half and then unfold it to get it done. Or you can just make one of these, find the curved angle that you want, tighten her down, set it on top, draw your curve, move it to the next piece. Just makes curves. And that's why I added in this little extra 1/4 inch bump. It's just so I didn't have all of this space for it to find a flat spot to keep that curve nice and curved. I'm sure there's another word. That's why I bumped him out just a smidge. Now, in the creation, instead of putting these little tabs in the center, you could have taken a board, drilled a hole, jigsawed it, routered that out, and you risk it not being straight, not being perfect. This easy peasy, and it works. And then again, even if I'm working on a perfectly flat surface, that's what these little bumps, they avoid that bolt. Could get a carriage bolt, maybe. You don't have to have a screw on knob on the top. You could just put a bolt on there and it stays. Even when it's not locked down, it stays exactly where you put it, I think, cuz the bolt kind of ink. So, there you have it. And I've kneaded this quite a few times in my day. And again, I've used the paper method. I draw it out on a piece of paper, cut out that piece of paper, unfold it. It's a nightmare. You can make this whatever length you want. If you wanted it to be 8 foot long, you could have an 8 foot curve jig. I felt like 36 is going to be a good distance for me. The handle didn't need to be that long cuz I Yeah, it did. Right there. I'm starting to get some cracking. So, that's probably about as much as I could do with the piece of Luon board. However, if you put a piece of plexiglass on the top, you glued a bunch of pieces of card stock together, the bigger poster boards, that could work. I'm rambling. There it is. Thanks for watching.