Title: This Woodworking Project Sells, EVERYWHERE I go.
URL: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=8PJ975_Q-Hw
Video ID: 8PJ975_Q-Hw

--- TRANSCRIPT ---

So, you're rolling out to your friend's barbecue, ready to soda pop some bottles, but to your surprise, a raccoon used a conveniently a jar rear passenger last night and ripped your cardboard carrier to shreds, probably for bedding. We can easily resolve this problem using a few basic tools and boards conveniently placed on the workbench earlier today. You can even use plywood or pine. At the miter saw, cut your board to be 12 and 3/4 of an inch long. Then at the table saw, rip that sliver to be 6 in wide. When this fills up, it means this is full. Yep. With our board cut to perfection, I'm going to measure up an inch and a half on both long sides. Since our board is 6 in wide, 3 in would be center. Inch and a half is the perfect amount of space so that the bottles aren't clinking and clanking together. Now, I'm going to take my ruler, lay it across that line. I'm going to measure up an inch and a half. I'm going to just make a one right there because we have two different size forstenner bits. I I didn't make a mistake. Who said that? Then I'm going to go to 8 and 1/2 in. I'm going to go to 11 in. Sorry if my hands are in the way. Using your drill in a 1-in forstenner bit, drill out your first two holes, the one that we marked 1 in. All right, I got the shot of us pretending to use hand tools. Let's get the stunt double over to the drill press. Whoa. Don't go clicking any buttons down below unless you haven't clicked it yet. Subscribe. If you took the time to draw a straight line all the way down that inch and a half, I like to just take the forner bit and just give it a little just a little kiss. Just in between the inch and a half and the 8 and 1/2. Just a little kiss. It'll help us in the future. I promise. Stepping up to a one quarter inch bit. Finish off the rest of our markings. Hand drill. Hand drill. Hand drill. Hand drill. All right, good. I knew I wasn't just going crossey. It definitely looked like it was off. I used to do eight and 3/4. Then I went down to 8 and 1/2 cuz I thought that it looked better. I'm going to guess this was 8 and 3/4. This is where our little alien crop circle in the board is going to come into play. I'm going to connect this line all the way straight, but I don't want to put it at this corner here because in our project, the mouth of our bottle needs to be able to slide in and then go down so that it holds in place. So, how we make that is by taking this line here. Just like to leave it about a sixeenth of an inch off of that circle just cuz my pencil doesn't touch the very side of the ruler. And I line it up with this line, which makes it a nice straight parallel line. Again, if I had made it to this point, no bottles would fit in here. It would have like one spot down below. So that's I'm just leaving that nice and open. Putting it right here, straight line all the way up. I'm going to repeat that for this side and remove this. Remove this. While I have all of this in my hands, I'm also going to connect these points together. This is going to be our handle. This we are going to remove. And the nice thing about 6 in and our smaller 3-in piece is that our little can of stain is 3 in in diameter. So, what's nice with this is you can put it on the corner. I can draw my line around it and repeat that for the other corners. Using a jigsaw, I cut out the bottle holders, the handle, and rounded my corners. Although the blade might say wood, I never reach for those blades. I always use either a metal blade or a blade that's made for laminate. They're not as aggressive, they don't give you as much tear out, and they leave you with a cleaner cut. I'm going to do a quick test fit just to make sure everything lines up. That's right. We still have a few more steps since our bottle kind of has a Vshape and this has no Vshape. Obviously, the bottle's not going to go anywhere. I too had a little bit of a head scratcher when I came across this. To those who just downloaded the plans and you're at this step, first time watching the video, welcome. To get the little Vshape, you just need to make a V. It's pretty simple. You're going to figure out which side you want to be your top. I'm not a big fan of this. So, I'm going to have this be the bottom. This is the top. So, I'm going to mark on the bottom. Grab your straight edge. Right where we have this inch and a quarter line. I'm going to continue it straight all the way down the project. And we do that on all the sides. It's going to look a little something like that. If you guys can see my pencil lines. I know they're really hard to see on the cameras. I don't know. So, the objective is to remove the material from the underside, but leave this the same width the entire way down. Because if you start removing material from the top, this little lip on the bottom pulls right through. Then you have a big mess in the garage. And that's why you want to leave it so that the bottle has space but it doesn't pull through. So to get this material removed from the bottom, you could use a good old rasp and just kind of start kissing it and remove material, angling it closer and closer to that front corner. Could use a Japanese whittling knife if you have one of those sitting around. But why didn't I just angle my jigsaw when I was cutting this out the first time? I just didn't want a wavy kind of gross looking line. You can give it a try. I've tried it. Not a fan. All up to you. If you guys have one of these, I don't know what they're called. It's a like a miniature belt sander. Adorable. This is what I use cuz I own one. And I just start sanding that line away until I get that line completely gone. Otherwise, it's a little bit of sandpaper, orbital sander. get something in there. I hold my board at a slight angle so I can see any high spots and first remove material until I reach the line that we doodled. Being careful to avoid removing any material from that top edge. Now that the interior has a little bump, I remove that middle raised section and perform a quick fit check. Removing additional material if it's too tight and hoping and praying that it doesn't need additional material added back on. An optional fancy pants thing to do is to give the interior of the handle and the exterior edges a gentle round over using the router. Do not touch any of the parts where the bottle will touch. You'll mess it all up. Leave those alone. Ah, leave them alone. If you wish to go really pinkies out, you can add a bottle opener to the top or the bottom. I would avoid adding it into the center just because there's not a lot of space since we cut that into a Vshape. Come in a 50 pack for like six bucks. Includes the screws on Amazon. Link in the description. It's a nice way to really fancy them up, especially because the nicer bigger model has one, but not the smaller one. So, you know, you got this guy. Hey, look at me. I'm seven bucks. Well, hey, but for 15 bucks, I get a bottle opener. Sweet. There's your answer. $75. It's just scrap wood that we had sitting around. Does not take that long to throw these guys together. Especially if you already have the bits out and all the tools, you're making like 10 of them in a big slew. It's nice. It's easy. And all they have to do with the one we had just built. Hey, where did How'd we get these back? I thought the raccoon shredded them. This thing is full of plot holes. full of them. You take your bottles, click, slide them in, take a bottle, don't let them clink too loud, and that's it right there. And when you tip it up, holds them in place. Pretty cool, honestly. Just hook it up to a string. So, it's sitting like this. People can see they can carry their whole six-pack. Sometimes it doesn't come with a carrier. 11 blocks from my door to your party. I'm feeling quite parched, but I'm on my way. Get it? The bottles are empty now. He drank them. I thought he was taking his