Title: This Months MONEY MAKER Woodworking Project
URL: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=oMgHFtZqVKo
Video ID: oMgHFtZqVKo

--- TRANSCRIPT ---

Today, I'll show you how to turn a $17 board into $600 using basic tools. This project has been a sellout at the last two craft shows I've attended, so I've decided to make a few more. My brickandmortar building only sells 2x12's in 12t lengths. Maybe your local lumber store will have an 8ft option, so you don't have to cut the board down in the parking lot. And their panel saws out of order more times than it's in order, so I just cut them myself. And well, that's the first step. Cutting your board to be an easy breezy 4ft piece. Second step is to print out the free plans available at who's theoss.com. All my woodworking plans are free. They always will be. With those plans, you are going to attach the two pages together. This was done so it wasn't so tiny. And now it's legible. Let's walk through this transfer together. It might seem like a head scratcher, but I'll show you. It's not really that bad. I like to use a speed square, a Sharpie so that you and myself can see the lines, tape measure, and this longer ruler, which is really just for a straight edge. Can be even just a piece of scrap board if you wanted to. Our first step. Looking at this. Looking at this. Perfect. Four inches. Four inches in. Five inches in. 6 and 1/4 in matches those down this side. Oh, I was going to change that and I forgot. 16 in. And then now you have to do math. So 4 in down 20 in 6 and 1/2 in which should get me at 26 and 12. Another four inches. One, two, three, four. Lands me at 30 and a half inches. Make those tick marks. Transferring to this side of the board. I have a 25 and a 39. Nothing needs to be exact. Doesn't matter that much. Then on this end, I'm going to do a 4 and 1/2 inch mark. Now, with our straight edge, I'm just going to kind of follow where these lines hit each other. So at the 39 and our 4 in, we're going to connect those together. Our 6 and 1/4 is going to meet this 16-in line. Switching over to our speed square, I'm drawing a straight line 90° all the way across the board at that 39 in spot. I'm also measuring in 2 and 1/2 in. You can do that easy by flipping this over 2 and 1/2 in in. And I'm going to come back up to my 25 in line and measure in 5 in. Just make a simple dot. Back to our long ruler. 2 and 1/2 in line at 39. And our 5 in, we're going to run all the way down. Then our six and a quarter is going to meet our six and a quarter line. Told you I don't know that well how to do this stuff. Six and a quarter. This line is going to connect to that line that we just drew our line two. So our 16 is going to meet that 25 in. This line is going to come over to this first tick mark. And while I'm at it, I need to measure down an inch and a half. So just know where inch and a half down that line is, just like so. Because that line is going to connect to this spot. So that inch and a half line all the way down to our 39. So these two tick marks are actually used as reference points for those interior lines. Again, grabbing your square. Just marking those. And with those are the lines that are going to be going backwards. So from this point, we are going to marry these two boards together. At the bottom, these two points on the end are going to meet that 4 and 1/2 in mark. And you can see my line goes right through a knot. It's near the outside. It's not right in the dead center. And that knot is not loose. So, I'm going to leave it how it is. If you have a knot that is loose and it's going through one of your exterior sections, you might consider just bumping it just a little bit or flipping that board over to use the other side because what's going to happen is that knots's going to fall out and it's going to leave a divot spot. It's not going to be straight. Now, all of these gray sections, we are going to remove. Don't want any of those on our project. These two guys, I do use a jigsaw. Since the lines join at a point, just the slowest setting, keeping everything upright. I want this to be as close to 90 as possible. To cut out my other areas, I throw down a few pieces of insulation foam, grab my circular saw, and set the blade depth to be just an eighth of an inch more than my material's thickness. This way I'm cutting into the insulation foam and not worrying about it going all the way into my concrete. And this will give me a nice clean 90° cut. As it turns out, this was marked at 5 in because it needed to be 5 in. I knew what I was doing. When you're making out these lines, the 4 inch, 5 inch, and six and a quarter inches, and you draw that line at 25 in, this one I have set the 5 in line to only go down to my 39 in. This 5 in goes to the 25 and the 39 in. And it just kind of changes up the flags a little bit. These spots will be just cut a little bit shorter cuz it's closer. But this part here will look different in this carving step that we're going to go over right now. Where we had placed our lines, we need to carve that material away to give it a wavy effect. I've seen people use these sanding discs, to which I thought, geeh, I'll just use my grinding wheel. It'll do it a heck of a lot faster. But to my surprise, these sanding discs work pretty darn diddly well. I bought mine at Lowe's. You could buy them also at Harbor Freight. They're a little bit cheaper. Be sure to do this in a well ventilated area, which I do not have. It's raining outside, so wearing a dust mask. In addition, I'm also using the cheapest dust collection system known to man. Simple box fan, 20x 20 filter on the back. These clips, my brother made them for me. However, you can also buy them on Amazon super cheap and it collects quite a bit of dust because these dust particles are going to float around the air for up to 30 minutes. You don't want to be breathing them in. It's about how long it takes to cook two Jack's frozen pizzas. The grinding head seems to wander and skip around the material, especially when rolling over those grain lines. I carved down each side of the line and removed a small amount of the material from these spots to add some depth about 38ighs of an inch. Finishing off with a few lines down the entire project for pizzazz. Again, we're going for a wavy look. Then I lightly sanded the edges and freshly carved middle sections with 120 grit orbital sander. And with 5 minutes of carving, you have one of these. I did take a little extra material off here just to kind of arch this bottom section depth. I took a little extra off of here so you really see the line coming down but it goes kind of flat depth. This one and this one I like to knock down and kind of tear for depth. And you could achieve this entire thing using one of these grinder wheels. Again, that's really what I see a lot of people using. However, time is money and I have a faster method. However, we're going to have to add some tools to the roster. I take a lap around the outside using my router with a round over bit. I also repeat this process for the back. Then, using a pointy bit, I run down those lines that we had drawn on the board about 3/8 of an inch deep. All freehand, baby. I don't need these lines to be perfect. They're supposed to look wavy. Then, using the grinder wheel, not the sanding disc, I run it down the sides of that groove. It helps guide the grinder head without it skipping around. Switching back to the sanding disc head, I smooth those contours and add a few ripples and waves in the flat spots. All in all, this process takes about 7 minutes, and it's a large improvement. Using a torch, I give the carved areas a little more love and finish off the rest of the front and sides. No need to do the back. I say it's time we fasttrack this build. We started out with this. Well, we started out with a piece of 2x12 and then we turned it into this. Then we put on our tape lines where we needed them to be to make that striping. Then it turned into this. Thanks for watching. Be sure to like and subscribe to the Here's a visualization if you do the wood burn or if you do not do it. I think it adds some depth and some nice characteristics. And I prefer the wood burn. I still make one or two that don't have it. I'll show you after you stain them how they both look. Jumping back to our tape layout. I have the stripes going in all kinds of different directions because since it's folded, you want it to have that draped look. And that's where we just put these going every which way. This top section is obviously reserved for the canton union, whatever you want to call the top section of the flag. And this white section is just a tape line. It divides the red and the blue against the canton is a white stripe that goes horizontal. So we are good to go. And then you can paint red and blue at the same time since they don't actually touch each other. That's kind of a nice thing as well. Let's lay one of these out. Instead of using the pre-taped flag as a visual, I am using a finished product. You're going to need some masking tape. If you want to build one of these beauties, it'll be in the description. That's a nice video. A few tapes. When using your tip dispenser, make sure you get a large enough piece to do what you're trying to do. A lot of times I'll come over here, I'll get a piece of tape, I want to go across something and I won't have enough tape to go all the way underneath or something wacky. It's happened quite often. Probably will happen again with our tape. The bottom one, it's essentially at a 45° angle and a 45° angle. I set the angles to be in line with the edge since it's at the edge. I leave about a half inch on this side here. Just make sure my tape is above this line. Again, plenty of tape to wrap it around because we are going over the sides. And to rub them down into place, these sections where you cut your grooves, make sure that tape is going all the way into those sections. Otherwise, you do have the possibility to make some oopsy paint runoffs. It just makes it look a little less nice. on the edge. You have the option if you wanted it to go perfectly straight, you have to cut another piece of tape. I've been leaving mine at an angle. The very first one I did, a couple of the first ones were just I tried to get them to be straight cuz I thought that looked cool. I figured it really didn't matter anymore. with that and this edge cut. You can wait until you're done or you can cut this piece off. Now, if you want to get real fancy, you can just take a piece of tape, lay it down next to it, and then lay out your piece of tape. That's not what I do. I just kind of eyeball it because I know it's going to be about right here. Obviously, that's too small. That's too large. I just eyeball them. And we're going to repeat that same process for the straight section. If you wanted your stripes to match up to be perfect opposites, you know, it would have come down right here instead of being half, you could you can leave them. So, you know, they're they kind of intersect a little bit. That's all how you want to see it. If I am matching it up with this tape line, I am generally laying the very top of my piece of tape on this corner and where this lands, it lands. I'm going to try to get it to 90°ish, maybe a little less. Make it just in line with this if you wanted to. The lines are very customizable. You'll see the groove where our 4 in meets our 39 in across this long piece. And I like to make that straight. I do that last. So for these, I'm just going to continue to follow my contour. Didn't have a long enough piece. Whatever piece of tape lands right above this junction, that's the last piece of tape I'm going up because I want the the canton to be farther down on the top, a little bit taller, you know, make it look like it's a draped flag. Now, this piece will wrap all the way around these ones. It doesn't matter as much. I'll show you why in a moment. So, make sure this piece of tape is nice and long. I'm just going to trim them up. Again, I just follow inside these contoured lines. Easy peasy. I think you guys have a good grasp on how to tape your flags. I'm going to finish off these other two sections. Just making them match the directions that they are. Right now, our very last tape section. I'm actually putting a small piece of tape here. And since my tape is too wide, I'll end up cutting it down. That way, this cornered section is red and it wraps around. And all there is left to do is paint in between your tape lines. I don't Every time I break out this paintbrush, everyone's like, "Why are you using such a tiny brush?" I thought it was a pretty good size brush. I don't I don't know. Do you think it's too small? Should I get like a 3 in out? I don't know. The paint I am using is just a simple acrylic paint I picked up at Walmart. Picked up pretty large jugs because I'm making quite a few of these. You can get away with this size if you're doing one or two of them. I've got bright red and cobalt hue hue. I added a droplet of black. It's about the size of a nickel if you're not squeezing it in. Teaspoon. I don't know how you want to measure your paint. Put a little bit of black into these. They are pretty bright red out of the store. So, I wanted them to be a little darker than they were. I added just a touch of black. Made them perfect. Moving on to getting the stars not painted. I do this by just using a simple foam sticky star that I bought at Hobby Lobby. They come in a variety pack, which I only like to use these pointy ones. They also make them that are a little bigger. Thought these were way too big. These are almost a perfect size. If you guys cannot find stars that are of size that are stickers, I do have in the printable plans a star this size, it's the outside star, you can cut it out. You can put some glue, just removable Elmer's glue on the back, stick them down, paint over them, remove them very easily. That method could work as well. You can buy a template online, but the template is going to do the opposite. It's going to paint the stars. So, you'll have to actually paint the entire thing blue and then paint the stars white afterwards. I like mine to be the wooden color. So, that's what we're doing. Since it's all woven and fancy, they don't really have to be in line. The only thing I like to do is to keep the points the same. You know, if the points are all facing like this, I'm not going to have one like this and one like this. I want all of them to be oriented the same direction. And I use about four or five stars. And then I just stick them down and paint over the top of them. Once they're dry, I take them off and I move them to the next location. So we have a couple folds. We have this main fold, this smaller section, and this section here. So I like to just put the star not touching the tape line here. I did it with the tape line. I don't like it. That's not how it is on the flag. So, this was a bad idea. 50% off. Who knows? I just stick them down just like that. If they wrap around the edge, I wrap them around the edge. Keep my spacing the same. Again, same orientation. We're going to go about a finger's width away here on this one. Heck, paint it blue. Smack these babies on. Done and done. I love the I love getting paint on me immediately because I have to take this thing off. Now I'm covered in blue. This section here is ready to be painted. You'll see I do not let the stars come back up over the top of the next fold. I actually paint over them when I take these stars off. So I just have to get down close to them. And I don't like to use a ton of paint on these just because I don't want to overload this star. I am going to reuse them. Uh, next problem is I can't see. Either you can't see or I can't see. And we repeat that for this section. And we'll finish it off with this section here. To hang these on the wall, you can pick up a picture frame hanging kit. Screw in the screws, wire, use that little jagged looking thing. Or if you want to get real fancy, forstenner bit, half inch. Just kind of find the center of your board. Drill down a little ways. And then we're going to use what's called a keyhole bit in your router. And it just kind of looks like a T. What this is going to do, let's put that inside that hole you just drilled out. Go up about another half inch. And then the head of your screw goes into the hole, goes up into that little slot we had cut, and it holds your flag up on the wall. Pretty cool. A quick touch on the finishes here in front of me. This one a woodburn and just a clear matte finish spray can on the top. This one wood burn with Minwax natural stain. This guy here, no wood burn and just Minwax natural on top for it. And even with the burn, even the reds and the blues are a little bit darker shade since behind them is darker than just the regular old pine. So if you want a more clean look, this is the way to go. I feel like these help pull out those groove lines and people generate to these. I had one of these left over last week. All of these sold. And I don't ship these products. I don't list them online and ship them. These are just what I sell at my craft booth. We'd go there every two weeks. They sold out the last two times we've been there. So, I've made six more. I sell them for 150 bucks a piece. I see them on Etsy selling all the time for 200 plus 300 almost dollars. And so, right here in front of me, I got 900. I think that's pretty good. Memorial Day is coming up, so that's definitely helping my sales. But, Memorial Day, Veterans Day, Fourth of July, name a few others. There's all kinds of things that people are going to be buying flags for. Not to mention people just like being patriotic. They're going to buy the flags or they buy them for friends or family members who have served. Hey, Uncle Sam, put your name at the top of his list and the statue of Liberty started shaking a fist and the eagle will fly and it's going to be I'm glad I gave it a try. I hope you guys give it a try. Happy building.