Title: Gradient Style Pyramid Book Rest. Free Plans. | Woodworking Project
URL: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=wQEtH1R-_T8
Video ID: wQEtH1R-_T8
Request Time: 2026-05-04 02:14:58 PM

--- TRANSCRIPT ---

Today I am covering the steps to build this oh so popular book rest with a few tweaks. It makes a cool gift and it's an easy sell. Last week in the headlines, a Florida man stops reading just four books from breaking the Guinness World Record for the most books read in a lifetime. His reason? He was gifted a book rest which made him feel nauseous by not picking up the book. It helped hide the monstrosity underneath. Once in a while, I prefer to build something new and unscripted, meaning I don't put much planning into it beforehand, and you'll see why I generally shy away from doing this in the next 15 minutes. I also tried doing this cool bending wood method, but it's a lot harder on hard woods. Just another typical day in the shop. For this build, I picked up two boards from Menard's, a mahogany and an aspen, just to give it some contrasting colors. and they are both 3/4 of an inch by 3 and 1/2 in by 6 ft long. This should be enough to get me two of these book rests. It is a wee bit more manageable to rip down smaller cuts than these really long boards. So, I cut these two boards down to 22 and 1/2 in pieces. I will be cutting them down to their final measurements later. Right now, I'm leaving a little extra just in case the boards slip and slide around during glue up. To make this cool looking gradient design, I kind of made up the spacing as I went along and drew it out on paper to make sure everything looked all right. Here are the sizes you need to write down in your plans. You can also take a screenshot to fill in later. You'll need one of each measurement for your lighter and darker boards. And I need all eyes up here for a moment. Fellas, call your wives and kids into the room as well. who couldn't give less of a crap. Do not do this. Do not set your fence to 1/8 of an inch and try to cut that little sliver. This is a recipe for kickback. Instead, try this. Set your fence so that it is the same thickness as your board's measurement. Right now, your board should fit in there and slide nice and smooth with no real room for play in there. Then what you're going to do is you're going to deduct that eighth of an inch if you're starting with the eighth inch. Deduct your eighth inch and then deduct an additional eighth inch for the actual blade's curve. And that will give you an ending product of being an eighth of an inch on this side of the blade. So that way your hand toes are good and safe. I cut all of the pieces thinner than 3/4 of an inch with this method. And once all the smaller cuts are out of the way, the larger cuts leave your push stick with plenty of space between the blade and the fence. So with our two 1x4 by sixes, we will be able to build two of these book rests, which is pretty cool news for me cuz I do know more than one book nerd who would like one. So I am glad I'm going to be able to get two of them. I did make some boooos, made some super thin 16th of an inch veneer accidentally, but you have all kinds of scraps. So, if you do make a mistake, it's all right. You got some extra extra playing wood. I don't know if I'm allowed to say that on YouTube. Uh, outside of that, what we are going to have, my 3/8 boards are almost the same size as my one quarter boards, meaning I cut them to one quarter. So, I have two sets of one quarter. You really won't be able to see it because they're going to be on opposite sides and that gradient towards itself. If measurements are off, it's not a big deal. I did find out now that I have two sets. I'm going to remove one set of each because this is the third time that I've tried to record this video and I keep messing up. You only need to see me build one of them anyway, right? Okay. So following our plans, we are going to throw these together. Yeah, that's that's going to look pretty sweet when she's done. So that is what it's going to look like. I am going to throw together that other one. Grab some clamps. Be right back. Today I am using Tight Bond 3 Ultimate. It's just a little bit more liquidy than Titebond two or one. Plus, I have gallons of it because that's their only exterior one. That's what we're building the planters with. So, Titebond 3, I have one of those little brushy things. That's fun. So, you don't have to smear it all on your fingers. Mainly so you don't get splinters or wood in your finger. I don't care that there's glue on them. All right. So, I'm going to start gluing these babies up. Okay. Okay. And you're just going to repeat this until you have all of them glued together. I'm not even going to film it just because it's it's going to be 40 minutes long. So, see you in a minute again. All right. Ready to watch me struggle? That's fun. So, for these, I'm just going to tip them all down, squish it together, anchor it down to some clamps, and we're going to move on. Glue side facing you guys for all of them. Letting it soak in. See how it's kind of gone to this milky consistency? That means that it's starting to set up. If you're doing like an end glue up or something, it's good to let the glue get to that nature. I always do this. So, you don't need to put glue on your first board because this one has glue on it. Doesn't matter. And for this, it doesn't have to be exact. I do just like to throw a square on here just to get things kind of lined up. Again, we do have a quarter inch to play with on both sides. Then, I do take some scrap pieces and just put on the ends. These do have most of their rubber bumpers on them. Some of them are missing. So, there is my beautiful little piece. Here comes the struggle bus. Okay. So, the fun part about parallel bar clamps is that you will have to flip them over. Um, you'll see here in a moment when Whoa. when you start to tighten everything down, this bar bends up and these kind of bend away and it's going to give you cupping. So, what you want to do is you can kind of already see the board shifting in that nature is you're going to put some clamps on the bottom, put some clamps on the top to kind of equalize that out. All right. I get them to be just kind of tight. Need four of these, but I'll show you for clamping purposes. I'm going to put one on the top and the bottom right here. And then clamp this into place. This is tricky. And we're doing this because it's going to anchor everything together. and pull these boards so that they're nice and flat on the top to save you some time sanding later on. Walking around in the shop off camera. All right. Now, with everything loosely fit on here, I'm going to go ahead and tighten down these clamps as tight as I can go. Really squeeze out some glue. Uh, one is glued up. I'm just going to wipe off the top and bottom just to remove any extra glue. Get it off the workbench so it don't dry there. Glue up the next one. Couple days for me, a few seconds for you. I have pondered how to get these angles to match up to each other. I ended up buying a pin nailer. So, we're going to talk about that for a little while unclamped. So, what is a pin nail? Well, a pin nail is basically just a headless brad nail that is also smaller in gauge. So, these are a 23 gauge. These are 18 gauge. So, you can see they are much bigger than these little pin nails. And by not having a head, that means when I fire it into the board, it's actually going to suppress down inside of it. You won't really see it. The only thing you're going to see is this little tiny dot from where it shot down into the piece. Now, these are not a fix all. If you're using these, it's really more for molding or something smaller like this to where I'm just trying to hold this into place so the glue is super suppressed and can dry there. Uh the glue should be enough for this to hold together. However, I want to add an additional fastener because over time with the heat, moisture, and exposure to different elements, uh the glue is going to expand, contrast, and it's going to weaken. So that is why I'm going to throw some pin nails into this. By no means do you have to use pin nails. I'm just wanting this to last a little bit longer. I don't know. So, we're gonna give it a shot. Let's check out what pin nails are. That is terrifying to watch. Yeah, it doesn't even punch through the back. You can tell she's getting real close to try. Uh, these are a 3/4. Hey, we made contact. Yeah. So, she shoots her in there. You know, that quarter of an inch and that should be pretty good. I mean, that's like six right there. And it's still pretty solid. And if I can hide it into the grain, I think that'd be even better. So, if I had like four of those puppies, I mean, that's pretty strong. Not to mention, there's no glue. So, that's just the nails holding on to place these little tiny baby adorable nails. These boards will be glued onto your project. So, you're just going to knock them off with a hammer. And then you'll have a little residue we're gonna have to clean up here in a little bit. Home run. Foul ball. What? My fantasy. I hit a foul ball. Another benefit to leaving these boards as long as possible is that you can still run these through your planer. You don't have a planer. I understand that's the most expensive thing I've got in my shop. So, if you don't have a planer, just knock the glue chunks off. Get a belt sander, orbital sander, just something to get it down nice. And our first step is to tilt our miter saw over to 22 1/2°. And I'm going to be utilizing this clamp to hold this down so that I get a nice straight cut and it doesn't wander away as I'm making my pass. Okie do. Then what we are going to do is unclamp our board. Flip him over, set him to 8°, clamp everything back down, and make our next cut. So, we want both of the angles to look like a trapezoid and not like a parallelogram, I think. fact check those shapes. And there is our first piece. Then what we will be doing is unclamping our board. Flipping them over over to 8 in. Once again, clamp her down and make our pass. Now I just need to get this flat and change the direction of my angle here because as it sits right now the colors do not match up. So I do need to be flipped this direction. So the colors matched. I don't like that angle. So we just need to fix both of those. So I'm just going to butt this against here. Use the most dangerous tool in the shop. I didn't watch the clickbait video, but you guys want to tell me why it's the most dangerous. My hand's here or it's here. I don't know. That's what I'm doing. So, I have flattened the one side and then we are going to just set our angle over to 45° our board flipped around. And we're just going to eyeball it just to make sure it makes a perfect cut and cuts all the way to the top. Again, most dangerous tool. Make this cut. That was very close, but I need to bump in just a little bit more. Make our cut. There we go. Now our angles match up so that it is going to Oops. So it's going to look correct. Luckily I was able to salvage both of these book rests. And I kind of made them unique in their own ways. This one is a little bit thinner. It's a half inch material. This one is still set to 5/8. And this one here, the base and the actual part that the book rests on, I gave a 15° angle to. Thought that looked kind of cool. This one is also a little bit bigger cuz I had more material to play with versus this one that you remember uh snapped in half. So, that's the two differences. Now, I'm going to go ahead and sand both of them to make them nice and pretty. It's a lot easier than doing it after glue up. And just remember, don't sand your cut edges. Um, I'm going to sand these beveled ends, but don't sand anything that we're going to join together because it's just going to make it look poopy later on. To get these bad boys assembled, I am just using a tight bond two, just a premium wood glue. And we're going to use the old blue tape method. However, I can't just lay down some blue tape like they do in the videos and they butt the corners together and they they fold them and they glue perfect because this would be wrong. And I actually need this amount of spacing in between them to where when you folded it, it would give you that sharp angle. I'm not dealing with all that. I'm going to just kind of hold it together and put tape on it. That's that's where we're at right now. for the glue up. Any end grain that has contact with glue, I'm going to apply glue to that end grain, let it soak in, and then I'm going to apply more wood glue. And you'll see that the end grain is going to suck up most of that glue. And that's what it would do if you tried to glue this up with just one go. And I want there to actually be some surface glue to glue to my face of the board. Now, Steve Ramsay said it the best. If you think about your boards as little straws sticking up, the wood glue just kind of fills in those straws so that it has something for your face of the board to glue up against. That makes sense. He says it way better than I do. So, I'm going to glue this guy and this guy. He is both a face cuz I don't want to glue those cuz that would be just another thing that I've done wrong today. So, apply your glue. Just be careful not to get it too much in here. just because of how acute this angle is. That would be very difficult to sand out afterwards. So, I put a good amount of glue onto there. And then I'm going to put some glue onto him. So, I'm going to give that just a little bit of time to set up because I want that to kind of change colors. It'll go almost into a clear, and that's what I'm looking for. Another thing, just because you guys are done sanding and you've turned it off, doesn't mean that the air quality has snapped back up to a hospital grade air quality. So, just be mindful there's still a lot of particles floating around the air. I took my mask off. Um, another thing you can definitely see I put a lot of glue onto mine, but you can see where it actually got sucked into the wood and it had dried out a little spot. So, I did just run my finger over that again just to give it a little bit more touch. And you can see the actual wood patterns a lot better than you could before. So, it is turning a little bit of a clear. And it's been setting up for about 5 minutes. So, we are ready to work with these little guys. What I am going to do first is I'm going to make a little mustache, but flip it over. Put it onto here so that it doesn't curl up on its own. Put one more for redundancy. Now, I'm going to put my piece down. And this is mainly because I don't want it sliding around and that glue getting all over my freshly sanded side. So I didn't want that. And then match up that grain pattern. And we are going to just kind of glue him. You don't rip your tape. I don't don't need it that long. And then you're going to just fold your tape around to the side. Hold every guy into place. Again, putting pressure down. Wrap your tape. Bada bing. And then if you just kind of push this direction, remember that that glue smeary thing I told you about? That's what I just did. Nice. Nice. There is that. We're gonna have to touch up a little bit of it. Not a big deal. I do have that 3/4 inch pin nail ready to go. I'm going to try to shoot him in this direction. Almost think about switching over to a half inch just because I got all kinds of play in that. So, about right here is where I'm going to shoot them in. arrow faces that. Here we go. Don't mess it up. And unlike a brad nailer, this does not really give you a lot of kick. So, your pieces aren't going to jar apart from each other. It's a very thin nail that you're shooting into there. beauty. And there we go. Three nails into there. That should hold them together beautifully. And we're going to repeat that step for the top, which the glue is getting very dry. So, we'll hurry up and get this guy done on the top. She goes, "Oh, it's too acute of an angle. It's just too cute. And that piece of mahogany because they're going to be less noticeable in that. Not too shabby. With everything dry, just remove that tape and give it another kiss with the sander. I am using a mouse sander instead of my orbital sander, mainly because it doesn't remove as much material and it's a little bit more gentle, so it's a little easier to work with. I took one of my scraps and tried out some golden oak. It turns out I did not like how dark it made the aspen. So, I'm just spraying everything down with a can of clear coat.